We are back again. Speed insighting our
way through stuff about how hard life
is. The Queen of England died 18 months
ago. She ruled an entire nation and
accumulated more wealth than 99.9% of
humans. And yet, you haven't thought
about her except for right now. No
matter how big your dreams, you're going
to die. Everyone will move on. Do what
you want. It sucks to not be liked, but
it sucks more to not be
yourself. Yeah. It's really interesting
when we think about what tactically
happens when someone dies, right? Like a
lot of emotion exists in the vague, but
far less in the specific because you
plan your funeral, right? And then you
think that everyone's going to be
standing there just forever changed
because of the death and the impact that
you had on their lives. But the reality
is there's going to be a caterer at the
funeral. Some people are going to like
the food. Some people are going to
comment that it was too cheap, you know,
the food that you had. Um, they're going
to have comment on the venue like, "Oh,
I don't really, you know, it's a little
hot. There's gonna be somebody who's
gonna uh make a list of people and
they're going to check them off. Some
people aren't going to be able to make
it last minute because things came up
and it got busy." And after the whole
funeral's over, everyone's going to go
to a restaurant and just eat dinner and
then move on with their lives. And so
not to say that you know the people who
you know mean a lot to you uh won't
remember you to a degree sure but on the
macro scale when I think about somebody
like the queen who accomplished so much
in her life as like the the zenith of
you know
accomplishment and most people probably
even thought about her today except for
the fact that we just brought it up. And
so I think that just it um whenever I
have um my harder times, that's my my
like reminder to self of um the
absurdity of it all, which is like
someone's going to argue over what
appetizer they're going to serve when I
die. This probably doesn't matter that
much. How does that change the way that
you show up and operate in the moment? I
think it just decreases affect in in the
in the acute moment. So I, you know, I
define resiliency as the amount of time
after an aversive stimulus, after a bad
thing happens, that you return back to
baseline behavior. And so, um, and then
there's different one, which is how long
is your fuse, which is toughness, and
that's a whole different thing, right?
But resiliency is like, okay, I've been
cracked. You know, I've hit the fuse,
the bomb's gone off. But the size of the
bomb is irrelevant. Like you could be
super resilient, have a terrible day,
your father dies, and then next day
you're back. People are like, "Holy." It
was like you like go to the depths of
hell, you touch the bottom of the pool,
and then you shoot back up. And so I
think about how many different tools can
I have in my tool set to make the
rebound from down to back up as V-shaped
as possible. What are those tools for
you?
Cosmic relevance is probably the biggest
one when I think about like because it's
so fast. I feel like I do it almost
automatically now, which is like, okay,
I'm on a planet spinning around a sun
inside of a galaxy inside of a universe
that will never reach the end of because
it's it's expanding faster than the
speed of light. Okay, the fact that, you
know, there was a mistake in my book
printing, no one's gonna care. No one,
it just doesn't matter, right? Um, so
that's one of them. Another one's the
frame of the veteran, which I use a lot,
which is, um, if this inconvenience
happened a thousand times in a row on
the thousandth time, what would I think
about it? Well, I'd probably be like,
well, this is just how life is. And then
if I could feel that way on the
thousandth time, then it means that I
can feel that way on the first time
right now because it's just choice
because the actual circumstance is the
same. Um, those are probably like my two
most prevalent, you know, the ones that
I like my default ones that I they're my
back pocket. There's a a cool insight
that the more you complain, the less
accurate your model of reality. So
complaining is you saying the world
isn't delivering to me that which I
anticipated or expected or desired from
it, which is also you saying I don't
understand how the world works until it
comes and meets me in reality. God, I I
haven't heard it phrased that way and I
really like it. Um I I think about um
the the hate um that we all get whether
it's from ourselves or other people or
the hate that we spew towards the
external conditions is simply boiled
down to this person lives their wife
life in a way that I would not prefer.
And so I have translated every single
negative comment that comes to me um
where someone complains about me. So,
flipping the script um to Alex lives his
life in a way that I would not prefer.
And so, it's actually been this very
weird like, oh, they said all this stuff
and I was like, does that mean that I
live my life in a way they wouldn't
prefer? Great, because they live their
life in a way that I wouldn't prefer and
that's why it's their life and I live my
life and it's just been this really
wonderful reframe that like just almost
comically make that but like completely
minimizes most things. But I think that
complaints come down to that. The
universe exists in a way that I would
not prefer,
right? It's like, why are you not
bending to my will? Yeah. And so, um, I
think, uh, shoot, I can't remember the
psychologist. I'm I'm going to butcher
it, but one of the big guys, um, talked
I want to say Kinsey, but I don't want
to mess it up. Um, talked about there's
three primary things that everyone uh,
casts all their pain and suffering to,
which is you have circumstances, you
have other people, and you have self.
And that's it. Those are the three those
are the three big ones that everyone
puts all of their all of their blame on.
And so the first two obviously don't
serve you. The third sometimes serves
you depending on what you do as a result
of it, right? And so um that actually
those big three has just been a really
easy filter is like, oh am I blaming
circumstances? Am I blaming other
people? Am I blaming me? And um
obviously you want to skip to you cuz
that's the only thing you can do
anything about. the idea
that all of the things that you're
working toward, all of the dreams, all
of those things are going to stop. There
is going to be a day when you no longer
answer your emails. Like I think about
this, I think about how many even now,
right, emails not been allowed for that
around that long, widespread, what,
maybe 25 years, something like that. The
most people have had an email address,
maybe 20 years.
uh all of the people that have died
between then and now. They just have
email inboxes just accumulating stuff
from uh you know lots of newsletters,
lots of online retailers. But there will
also be people expecting a reply, right?
And saying why hasn't this guy replied
to me? It's like because he's dead.
Yeah. There's
um just thinking I I mean I think a lot
about the end of my life. Maybe it's a
borderline obsession of mine, but
thinking about like what the last five
years are going to look like and also
thinking about my cognitive decline,
which is going to be inevitable on the
back half of my, you know, life. Um, and
it gets really tricky when you think
about fluid intelligence, which peaks
when you're like between 25 and 35, and
then like at our age right now, it's
just all going down, right? Like we're
beginning this slow decline. And in
thinking about that, I was like, I will
actually never be sharper than I am
today for the rest of my life. And the
idea that there will be young people who
will replace me because humans are all
replaceable. Um we have proven that. And
so uh when when I think about that it it
decreases the stakes of these huge
dreams that if I don't accomplish them,
I will be upset or else. Um and so it's
like we have these big or elsees like we
threat we want to threaten the universe
like I can't stand it if this does not
occur. It's like and the universe
remains unchanged and the universe is
undefeated.
Correct. Well, that's why I was such my
Twitter bio for a long time was locally
reversing entropy. I remember that.
Yeah. Yeah. And I just love that idea
that
you have the entire universe. This force
entropy which is going to inevitably
destroy everything. Not just everything
you care about. Everything that could
have created anything that anything
could have cared about and it's going to
destroy it. Yeah. But for a brief period
of time, you know, a few decades, you
locally stop the most powerful force in
the universe. I think that's so
cool. I don't know if you saw this, but
Basos has this one page that um was just
brilliant. And he basically um
paraphrases Richard Dawkins talking
about how over
time all organisms revert to their
environment. literally like the
temperature of your body once you die
eventually just normalizes with the
environment. The acidity of what's going
on like inside of your body normalizes
and then eventually like you become one
with your environment. And so it's the
exact same concept. And so Basos was
talking about that quote which was about
biology but he said this is you know
originally about biology but so much
more so about um the way that we want to
live which is that everything around you
will try and force you to dilute
yourself. it will force you to try and
merge in fit in with your surroundings.
And he said like this force is natural
and it's inevitable and yet we have to
fight it. And the fact that it's hard
does not make it less worth it. And I
thought that was like it was just I I
mean I reposted cuz I thought it was so
elegant. It's like a cosmic regression
to the mean. Yeah, it's exactly that's
exactly what it is. Um, and yeah, so I
think if we all know that we're going to
we the regression of the mean is
inevitable like and like again I think
about these things that are I want to
say I don't know if humiliating is the
word but like humilityinducing. Um, but
like the idea that I'll die and then
like worms will eat my body. Just like a
very simple thing like that or if I died
like I was like what if I just died by
an animal killing me? I like sometimes I
think about that and I'm like I would
just be its lunch. Like everything that
I've done up to this point, it's like my
arm will feed its child and like my
thigh will feed it and then like they'll
leave some of it for the good meal. It'
be one one good meal and it just like it
just it just takes the the stakes of
like I'm so important, right? I'm all
these goals matter to just like I could
be lunch and that kind of, you
know, gives me one large exhale.
The single greatest skill you can
develop is the ability to stay in a good
mood in the absence of things to be in a
good mood about. I think that tweet has
been my theme for 2025. Um it's been
it's it's funny because that was the
most shared tweet I've ever had. Um and
it was it was like it's it was almost
um not the opposite of iron. It was
fitting, right? It was completely
fitting for the year. And it's been
because like this year I've had a just I
would say a series of unfortunate events
um that has occurred and it's really
tested my tools right tools in the tool
belt um for reframing reality so that I
can make my experience less you know
miserable. And so I thought about that
it's like if I were if I were to boil
everything down um of all the skills
that you can learn if everything that we
do eventually becomes irrelevant then
the single greatest skill that you can
develop is being in a great mood in the
absence of things to be in a great mood
about. And so one of the other frames on
this is most people don't question
someone who's in a bad mood. Like I'm
just in a bad mood. So it's like well if
you can be in a bad mood for no reason
it's like you might as well be in a good
mood for no reason because that one at
least serves you. And so I've been
trying to exercise like because there's
on one degree there's like let's count
things to be grateful for. On the other
side it's
like why do I have to have things to be
grateful for in order to be in a good
mood? Like why is trying to find things
a requirement of being in that mood?
Like can I not find things and still
choose to be in a good mood? Because
I've certainly not had things to be in a
bad mood about and been in a bad mood.
And so I've been trying to flex that
which is like sure we can find things to
be grateful for and when those things
pop up yes and of course it's a you know
it's a practice you get better at it but
like what if I can just be in a good
mood and so I've just tried to try to
break that that relationship between the
two because then it makes it contingent
on something that I can find. How
successful have you been at that?
Mediocre.
Well look I think it's a it's a a lovely
idea in isolation. Sure. uh in theory,
but I'm not convinced about how
effective it is in practice for the
reason that humans have a negativity
bias. You know, it's our psychological
entropy% and your ability to detect
things that are a risk to you
significantly better than your ability
to detect things that are just pleasant.
Like this morning, I texted you and I
was like, "Hey man, like I really love
the feeling I have of anticipation on a
morning before we do a podcast. That's a
normal, boring, mundane source of
pleasure to me." Yeah.
If I'm not really really training myself
to notice that, yeah, I just it just
 falls away with the fact that,
huh, I asked for almond milk and I bet
this would have been better with like
whole milk.
That's the thing that that ruins the
day. And the thing is, you do notice it
though, right? You do notice that. Um,
so I've had um one of my themes this
year has been focusing on moments and on
both the positive and the negative. And
so like when we think back on if I think
back on the last year, right, I don't
remember probably 95% of the year like I
you know I did the same things and so
it's like it just didn't get recorded
like nothing notable happened. Um and so
really like when we think about a year
we really just recall a handful of
moments and that's it. And those moments
in time are usually very short. And so
I've been trying to think about um the
bad, you know, seasons as well maybe it
wasn't a bad season. Maybe I had five
bad days or really five bad moments that
I then thought about for the entire
season and turned what would have
otherwise been 5 minutes times five into
an entirely bad year. And so it's like,
okay, well, if we can do that in the
negative, can we do in the positive,
which is, you know, obviously the thing
to to exercise. But to the point that
you said earlier about our our ability
to detect threat and risk at such a such
better accuracy than our ability to
detect good things, it's so interesting
because if you use that side of your
brain, um, not to derail us, but like I
think that has been one of the things
that's helped me a tremendous amount in
business because when I think about a
business and I want to grow it, for
example, I would think, okay, what are
all the things that can destroy this
business? And this is Charlie Munger.
this isn't me. Um, but basically he says
invert always invert. And Einstein said
that too. And it's because like you get
to use this this way stronger horsepower
engine of like how do I grow my
business? That's a you could obviously
think that way, but the alternative
would be like how would I absolutely
destroy this business in the fewest
possible moves. And then when you list
out those moves, you're like cool, now
let's do the opposite of that. And that
has been um honestly a lot of the some
of the sources of my greatest kind of
creative moments have come from these
apparently obvious things that would
kill us. Well, what if we did the even
more obvious thing and did the the
opposite of what would destroy us. Um
and it's worked. It's worked um better
than I deserve. So, this is a problem.
Yeah. Uh you can be re rewarded
professionally for focusing on things
that you do not want to focus on
personally. And Ryan Long taught me
this. He was talking about how he
comedian, Canadian comedian, really
funny guy. Spends all of this time, you
know, dialing in these bits and
obsessing over how it could be better.
And then he says to himself, "Yeah, but
I don't want you to do that in your
relationships." No. Can you let that go
when it comes to the way that you show
up for your partner or your friends or
your body image or whatever? You don't
get to compartmentalize stuff like that.
And it is a
very unfortunate irony of the world that
the skill set you often need to become
successful in business is the one you
need to get rid of to be happy in your
life. Yes. So I was I was thinking about
what you were saying earlier with
regards to risk and our ability to
detect it. So the other part of that
that's been really interesting is we
also not only do we detect more threats,
we also overemphasize how catastrophic
they could be. And the converse of that
is we rarely identify the upside and
when we do we typically underestimate
the upside. And I think this is
something that a lot of people don't
talk about as much. Um obviously I
always have a business, you know, hat on
literally. Uh and but I think about this
because I think this is where like you
said it at the very beginning that
people complain because they cannot
accurately view reality. And so if we
tie that to this concept, then it means
that people will disproportionately
blame the universe and then perceive
significantly greater risk for them
asking Google out, starting a business,
taking a loan, uh you know, asking a
stranger to buy something, making a
podcast, and for fear of what other
people on the internet will say or
people who know them, right? Right? So
we we catastrophize this side, but the
flip side is and you hear this a lot
when people, you know, do make it and
what not. They're like, I never dreamed
it would be this big. Now, some people
are obsessive and like absolutely have
thought through everything. I fall more
on that side. Uh but uh on on the other
hand though, a lot of people do get
there and they're like, I never thought
it was going to be this big. And it's
because we typically just underemphasize
the upside, which is where from the
business perspective, it's like that's
where the alpha is. That's where the
outperformance exists. where most people
think, hey, this bet uh it could go to
zero. And you're like, h I don't think
it's going to go to zero. But even if it
did go to zero, I have a 10x here. And
so if I have a 50% shot at a 10x and the
other 50 is zero, I should take that
shot every single time knowing that I'm
going to be wrong half the time. It
still makes sense to take. And so I
think um people are not good at making
those riskadjusted return bets um
obviously financially, but even in the
very micro aspect of our lives. And so
the we talked earlier about uh you know
the cosmic irrelevance and the frame of
the veteran but there's a third frame
that I think about a lot which is I call
it play it out. And so it's like let's
no let's let's sit in there because
again fear exists in the vague not in
the specific and in the resistance. Yes.
And so like when we have these um these
spec specificities of like okay I'm
going to start a p I can't start a
podcast like okay it's this big vague
thing but no like let's play it out like
let's see what actually would happen.
So, I'm going to upload something and
then people don't listen to
it. Okay. Well, they didn't listen to
it. Okay. Well, then that's not a
problem. Okay. Let's say people Let's
see tons of people listen to it, which I
don't know how that magically happens,
but let's say tons of people listen to
it and they all hate it. Okay.
Immediately you have this anxiety that
No, no, but but let's play it out. Like,
what's happens next? It's like, okay, is
it going to change what I eat? Is it
going to change where I sleep? Okay,
let's say let's say I all of a sudden I
lose all the money that I have. It's
like, okay, well, I probably have a
bunch of people that if I really needed
to sleep on their couch or in a spare
bedroom, I could do that. Okay, so I'm
not really going to be homeless. And if
I really didn't have enough money for
food, I can go to a homeless shelter and
get food, right? So, it's like, wait, so
my worst case scenario is like I have
shelter and I have food and I'm still
breathing air. So, that's the downside.
And so, there's this catastrophizing
that we cuz we our brains are meant to
are meant to keep us alive. We literally
think if we fail, we
die. Like everyone will will ostracize
us from the group and we will be alone
and die. And so just actually playing it
out, not one step, but like two more
steps after that, you're like, "Okay, so
my actual downside risk is nothing, but
my upside is everything I've wanted. And
even if I even if I'm at 50% off on
that, it's still worth the shot." In
other news, this episode is brought to
you by Momentus. If your workouts feel
flat, your recovery is slow, or you've
just been feeling off, it might not be
your training plan or diet. It might be
something a bit more boring like your
testosterone. So, if you're not
performing well in the gym or the
bedroom, or you just want to improve
your testosterone naturally, tonatali is
a fantastic researchbacked place to
start. And when it's stacked with zinc,
this can make a huge improvement in
testosterone strength, recovery, and
energy. Which is why I'm such a huge fan
of Momentous's zinc. It supports
testosterone. It boosts vitality and
helps keep everything running like it
should. And if you're still unsure,
Momentous offers a 30-day money back
guarantee. So, you can try it for 29
days. And if you don't like it, they
will give you your money back. Plus,
they ship internationally. Right now,
you can get a 35% discount on your first
subscription and that 30-day money back
guarantee by going to the link in the
description below or heading to live
momentous.com/modernwisdom and using the
code modernwisdom at checkout. That's l
i v o m nt o
us.com/modernwisdom and modern wisdom at
checkout. Have you heard Ferrris's idea?
The world rewards the specific ask and
punishes the vague wish.
I like it.
Very ferris. And it's it's getting it's
getting to this point here which is fear
exists in the vague and it exists in the
resistance. Going back to the single
greatest skill you can develop is the
ability to stay in a great mood in the
absence of things to be in a great mood
about.
There's again I think it's fantastic in
theory. I wonder how much it works in
practice. Both of us everybody would
love to be in a great mood for no
reason. Um so I guess you can perhaps
try and cultivate I can try and be
positive when there's nothing to be
positive about. I would say that the
other neurobiologically informed
solution to this is to find increasingly
small things to be increasingly happy
about. M. So, huh, that was a really
good training session. Yeah, look, you
know, it was annoying because half of
the gym's under construction and I got
some dust on my shoes. Yeah. But, huh,
that was a good session. I really
enjoyed that. Um, Rick Hansen who wrote
hardwiring happiness is 20 25 years old.
Um, hardcore uh neuroscience guy, dharma
teacher, meditation expert, life person.
 awesome intersection all. And,
um, he has this wonderful acronym of
heal. have a positive experience. Mhm.
Enrich it. And by enrich it, he means
sort of sit with it. So you allow it to
you actually notice it. Absorb, which is
uh imagine that sinking down and
becoming a part of you. Uh and then the
L is optional, which is link. So you can
link it to a bad experience. And you can
oscillate between the two to help bring
down the the um volume of a a bad
experience. So right now there's nothing
else I want to be doing right now than
having this conversation, having a good
experience. Huh? But that just washes by
you and then you think in retrospect, oh
wasn't that that was like a good thing
at the time, but you don't ever actually
arrive at having a good experience. So
the enriched bit's important. So I'm
like, huh, this is cool. Like I'm
enjoying having this conversation.
absorb. Imagining it sinking down and
becoming a part of you, which is
basically spending 30 seconds to a
minute, letting it letting that emotion
sort of fill you out as opposed to
noticing it cognitively like allowing it
to go below the neck would be a good way
to put it. Okay, this is going to go
below the neck. This sensation go, huh?
Mhm. I'm actually like people are going
to watch this and and it's going to make
them happy. It's going to give them
insights about their life. And isn't
that lovely? It's the most obvious
thing, which is I mean this is a pretty
grand thing as things go. It's certainly
more grand than like I had a
nice coffee or something like that. Um,
so I wonder whether one of the skills
that you can develop in the pursuit of
becoming a person that's in a great mood
in the absence of things to be in a
great mood about is to become
increasingly proficient at finding
things to be in a great mood about. And
I'm aware that in your frame that still
makes it contingent on external which is
going to be an issue. I'm still happy to
be in a good mood when there is things
to be a good mood about. For sure. if
you can become increasingly skilled at
finding things to be in a good mood
about, I get the sense, especially if
life's kicking you in the dick, which
it's done to both of us for the last
while. Um, and I also think that it's a
an
interesting comment realization from
you, uh, given that you've been kicked
in the dick because you think, huh, this
is an insight that you will only learn
when things
aren't ostensibly going well. Yeah.
because it's the sort of realization
that you get when inertia and momentum
and bravado and confidence and and uh uh
upward trajectory are all taken away
from you and you go ah I'm like I'm
having to do the budgeting equivalent
like the the mental equivalent of living
on pennies from a well-being
perspective.
I want to say we talked about this four
podcasts ago, this specific thing which
was
that I have this maybe it's sadistic is
probably is the right word but like I do
take some sadistic
pleasure in or masochist I don't
remember the word is but when you when
you enjoy your own pain
um whenever I have these prolonged
moments of suffering that kind of break
past what I would consider the normal
variance of life right it's like no this
broke through the barrier of shitty um I
do have this history of having
significantly larger improvements that
happen post dip, right? So it's like we
kind of get the opportunity to buy the
dip uh for our own negative consequences
and I've I've bought the dip at almost
every time and it's rewarded me
disproportionately. And
so I I hate to make make a make a
parallel between like the economy or the
stock market and and your own internal
happiness, but I think I think that's
what's happening right now. Um but that
that that thought process has has
shortened some of the the the shittiness
that happens because then it's like,
okay, well it has to it has to be worth
it, right? I have to make this worth it,
right? Because I'm this this sucks. So
what what can I learn from this? What
can I be better from this as a result?
And so like obviously there's things
that I've been working on in order in
order to improve. But um beyond that uh
I because gratitude has been so
difficult for me which I've I've talked
about before like I never I've never
once said I am the the champion of
happiness but in an effort to try and
make it easier for me I was like well
how do you how do you how do you
operationalize gratitude right and so
the simplest way that I have is imagine
something
terrible and then remember that that has
not happened like it's like I I've yet
to find like that has been the the
simplest way like be grateful. It's like
what do I do to be grateful? Yeah. Like
no no no like that more. And it's like
that that it's like it's been difficult.
So it's like okay um and the on the flip
side imagine something that you love.
Imagine it's gone and then remember that
it's back again. And so that's I think
the operationalizing of those moments
which is I have this coffee moment man
if I never had another coffee moment
like this again. This would mean more to
me. Okay. And by doing that and by
remembering what it would be like to not
have this then this thing now in the
moment becomes worth more. And so it's
basically creating a wider discrepancy
between the moment we're trying to find
gratitude with and something else in
order to basically manufacture a delta
because I think that that to to your
point like we're so much more sensitive
to the negative delta than we are on the
positive delta that we have to make the
positive delta massive. And so how do
you make moments massive? It's like well
then we just have to drop the floor out
and then remember that now all of a
sudden we went from the bottom of the
pool back to the surface even though
we're not above the water. It's like
playing uh pretend. So I'm 100% playing
pretend. All gratitude is is playing
pretend.
I mean, sure. I think if something
happens and you're grateful for it,
that's you enriching something that
exists. But what we're doing, what is
enriching, mate? Uh, really noticing it
because things that you should be
grateful for will often pass you by
without you noticing them. So, we notice
them originally and then we notice them.
Do you notice them? Oh, I know. I have
to remember to be grateful and then I
have to go look for Yeah. But even
as it happens, right, and this is the
point, as it happens, I'm here. We I
went to Rufus Doul at um uh Q2 Stadium
in Austin, which is where the the
football club plays. And Rufus Doul,
great music, real cool, and with a ton
of my best friends. Um it's finishing at
a time that's not insane. You know, it
the weather was lovely by 6. Yeah. Yeah,
I was in I was in bed by 7:30. Um but it
wasn't that loud. The sound wasn't that
good. Okay. What? Everybody was like,
"Wish it was louder. Wish it was
louder." Because it wasn't. We were at
the very back of the stadium. Beautiful
view, but not fantastic for sound. You
go, "Dude, you're watching Rufus
to Soul in a stadium with your friends
in Austin. Weather's great. Everyone's
got a a beer or a sparkling water in
their hand having a great time." Just
this is something that you can notice in
the moment. You have Pick your
direction, Western Man. Yeah. And you
are picking the sound's not good. Yeah.
But in your business, you are rewarded
over and over and over again for
realizing that the sound's not good.
This can I've done this before. Uh, are
you zoomed? Can you do this? So, if you
look very very closely here, I might
even have to get out the way for the
light. The alignment of the Instagram
logo with the F from follow us here and
the N from Newtonic below is out of
alignment by what looks like one point.
It's less than a millimeter. Guess who
noticed? This guy. Uh I have been
rewarded throughout my entire
professional career for noticing things
that other people didn't and then
claiming that they were sufficiently big
issue that we should actually change
them. Yeah. Reverse gratitude.
like and this is a small thing. It is
now a big problem. It's a massive it's a
massive problem because you win in the
weeds. Yeah. But you don't win in the
weeds when it comes to happiness unless
you are doing it in the other direction.
Right. So you need to and this is so hot
and this is this is why we enjoy talking
about just for everyone who's listening.
Um Chris and I had a conversation prior
to this being like what are we what are
you thinking about right now? And so
we're both actually like in the same
vein of thought which is why both of us
were looking forward to having this you
know conversation with you guys um about
this this difficulty because one of the
other things that's come up with regards
to to gratitude and happiness has been
there's a second conversation I think
happens internally at least for me which
is that like I will judge myself on
being not as happy as I should be or not
like hey I didn't notice anything I'd be
grateful about you
 right and so trying to separate the
fact that I like to take this to the
absolute extreme why should I be
grateful why should I be happy why do I
demand of my life that it must be happy
like that I must be happy during it
that's a demand and so I try to decrease
my demands in general as a habit you
know as a personal practice and so I've
been thinking about that that concept in
of itself because the very early the
earliest part of my career I just was
done with happiness I was like screw it
yeah it's just like it's irrelevant and
so now I'm getting to the point where
like well it'd be it would be nice
uh to also have this while I have I'm
aware that this is a very sort of basic
 insight, but I do think that given
the starting point that you were at and
to a lesser degree, the starting point I
was at is like a homosy light uh like
lifestyle approach. Um that's a that's a
big deal to make this pivot and I think
it's one of the reasons I was
particularly interested in in talking to
you today
because I would say the last, you know,
three years or so since we've been
recording together. Yeah. From
a architecture perspective, it's largely
been the same. Yeah. That uh it doesn't
matter how you feel. Uh the hard work
just needs doing. Hard things are hard.
That's why they're hard. And and
disregard the emotions that getting in
the way of it. And I do think that that
works for a for a good while and it can
really propel you to great things. But I
also think that sometimes stuff you have
such a orthogonal change in the way that
your life's put together where you
go, I might have exhausted this fuel
source. I might need to switch from
booster rockets to something else. And
um yeah, you've got, as you said earlier
on about how you you take small bad
moments, maybe very impressive bad
moments, and then you scale them out.
Yeah. You're not having a bad year.
you've had a few bad days that you're
thinking about for the rest of the year.
I've found it helpful when I'm in a bad
season, like I'm in right now, to just
focus on having a good day. A good day
and a bad season is a bite-sized
victory. String a few of those in a row,
and a bad season feels less hard. I'm
pretty sure the difference between a
happy life and an unhappy one doesn't
come down to how many good or bad days
you have, but which days you think about
over and over again. In some seasons of
life, maintaining is winning.
Couldn't have put it better
myself.
Um, this has been the this has been my
my big focus right now is um and I'm not
the first person to say this, but just
winning the day. Um, and Bill Aman had
this uh I heard him on a podcast talking
about this hard season where he was
getting divorced. He just lost $4
billion in Perishing Square, his
investment firm. And he was not him
today. He was earlier on his career. So,
I mean, it was just the worst. And
because he had lost his money, the
divorce was for way more money because
it was based on his net worth that
didn't exist anymore and was just a
terrible slog. And he said one of the
difficult parts about that period is
that there was no one thing that was
like, "Oh, I can tackle this today."
Like, you're not going to finish the
divorce today. You're not going to undo
the $4 billion loss today. And so, it's
like when you have these larger, more
complex negative things that do scale,
it's like how do you how do you how do
you navigate through that? And for
anyone who's listening right now, it's
like maybe it's the bad breakup. Maybe
it's the or maybe you're getting
divorced, right? Or maybe it's like the
business isn't working the way you want.
It's like and there's like 10 things
that you have to fix. And it's like,
well, I can't fix that change in the in
the logo until the next run. So, I just
have to see this every single day. And
so, he he had this very tactical advice
which I liked a lot, which is he just
tried to make progress and that was it.
And he said, you know, in a day you it's
almost it's almost negligible, right?
But at 30 days, you're like, "Okay, I
moved this." And at 90, you're like,
"Wow, you know, this this is really this
has really materially changed um in
what's happened." Now, does this mean
that we're our mood is still being
dictated by circumstance? Yes, I'll be
honest. Yes, it does. But I think I
think many of us have this ideal. We'd
love to be able to great be in a great
mood with in the absence of things to be
in a great mood about. But sometimes
progress is the W. like maintaining in
some seasons is winning. And I've had to
tell myself that also that we can have
these different like on the on business
factor I'm murdering it. I'm crushing
there. But like I had I tore my quad
this year uh which sucked. I had a uh
yeah painful. Um I have a a neck thing
that's just been bugging the hell out of
me. Right. So it's like and I have two
great fears in life. One is that I lose
my mind which is really just more that
I'll be a burden to everybody else. I
won't know cuz my mind will be lost.
Right. Um and the other is chronic pain.
Those are like my two great fears in
life because chronic pain is really
tough. Like the first thing you think
about when you open your eyes in the
morning is pain and it's like It's
like and now I have to be in a good
mood, right? Because I demand this of
myself. And so um when in in navigating
those those scenarios um just trying to
chip away and also take the reverse of I
had this one great podcast today. I'm
going to make that thing the thing
that's making this a great day. And then
if I can make that great day, then maybe
it could be a great week. And then
trying to expand those basically like
let those good moments eat up the
season. And I made a conscious decision
on May 1st. And I think I did I send you
the the screenshot of my HRV. Yes. So I
It was May 1st. I was
like, "Fuck this." I was like, I told
Laya, I was like, "I have decreed that
the rest of the year will be good." And
so I'm putting so much mental effort
into this, which is why this is so
timely from from the from us talking
about it. um in actively trying to
minimize all the down things and super
super focus on those moments and be like
cool I had that good moment that's my
day's made and I'm trying to even say
that more like oh this podcast made my
day this podcast made my week now I used
to think oh this made my week when
someone would say something small I'd be
like that's what made your week like you
must not have a lot going on so true
right like ment like my own judge judge
machine right that's lame Yeah. Stupid
thing. Oh my god. How feeble, how small
is your life that something so
unimpressive is a source of gratitude to
you for a week or and yet. And yet,
yeah, your life is made up of small days
like this. That is what life is. And if
your expectation of life is that it's
going to be, well, until I play the main
stage at EDC, until I make the billion
dollars, until I get married to the love
of my life, until I get these things,
you're just holding your happiness
hostage, until something great happens.
And what if, again, what we said before,
what if something small could be
something great? Yeah.
And it's been and it exists in the
specific those like the tiny moments and
that yeah that's that's been that's
victories boring boring victories. Um
but but making trying to make it
basically I've had to recalibrate my
entire scale to how little of a thing
can happen that makes my day. How little
of a thing can happen that makes my
week. How little of a thing can make can
make my month. And like how crazy would
it be if a year from now I say 2025 was
a great year. You know I woke up
painfree for for probably like 70% of my
days. That was a great year. Like I got
to have coffee with Ila in the morning
once a week and that that filled me up
for the whole week. Like if I can and I
want to I I'm this I'm putting so anyone
who's listening this like I'm putting a
huge amount of my discretionary effort
into this because it's my belief that
right now what will what will prevent me
from achieving my ultimate goals cuz
that that is not gone. Um
um the thing that will achieve that will
stop me from achieving my ultimate goals
is um running out of steam because and
and this may not be real for some people
but like I don't need to do this. like I
don't need to work this hard. Um, and so
I have
to make or I'd like to I'd prefer to
make the ride more
enjoyable. We'll get back to talking to
Alex in just one second. But first, I
need to tell you about element. If you
often feel tired, you might not need
more sleep. You might not need more
caffeine. You might just be dehydrated.
Proper hydration isn't about drinking
sufficient water. It's about having
enough electrolytes to allow your body
to properly absorb those fluids. element
contains a sciencebacked electrolyte
ratio of sodium, potassium, and
magnesium with no sugar, no coloring, no
artificial ingredients or any other BS.
It plays a critical role in reducing
muscle cramps and fatigue while
optimizing brain health and curbing
cravings. That's why it's used by
everyone from Dr. Andrew Human to Dr.
Mike Israel and Olympic athletes and FBI
sniper teams as well. This orange
flavor, this orange flavor here in a
cold glass of water is how I've started
my morning every single day for over 3
years now. And they have a no questions
asked refund policy. So if you don't
like it for any reason, they'll just
give you your money back. And you don't
even need to return the box. That's how
confident they are that you love it.
Plus, they offer free shipping in the
US. Right now, you can get a free sample
pack of Elements most popular flavors
with your first purchase by going to the
link in the description below or heading
to
drinklnt.com/modernwisdom. That's
drinklmnt.com/modern wisdom.
That's a huge departure. I think prefer
I will still I will still ride
at dawn. That's a huge departure though.
And look, dude, you know,
I the conversation that we had the other
week and I think the one that we're
having now, it might
be
less Gogggins
Jo screaming alpha motivation
sleep token track over the top of it
edit thing.
However, uh, one of the things that I've
noticed when seeing somebody that goes
from a position like the one that you
were in or the light equivalent that I
was to talking in this sort of a way,
there's an awful lot more humanity. I
think that people can see in that
because work until your eyes bleed.
Nobody cares about your emotions.
you, dude. Just go harder. Um, although
it sounds fantastic in theory, it's very
impersonal and it sounds it sounds
mechanistic. It sounds robotic. It
sounds detached and that's fantastic and
you can do that for a while. You can
completely disregard the way that you
feel for a while. Yeah. But only for a
while and sooner or later the entropy of
positive affect being a motivator. The
fact that enjoyment is efficiency Mhm.
does tend to catch up with you and it'll
catch up with you in sneaky ways. Yeah.
Right. The quad tear, who knows? And I'm
completely open to this. Who knows
whether the quad would have happened if
the book had been finished in twice as
long. Yeah. You know, your system sort
of contributes to itself in a global
sort of stress-based manner.
It's, you know what's weird is that the
thing that's made the season hard is not
actually like work ethic or even time
constraints because like I work pretty
much every day all day, but like that
that's that's been baseline and that
doesn't really bother me like I don't
bother very much. I like doing that. The
thing is that the nature of what fills
that time and so like if I have all the
things that are not work that are
related to work that I must do as a
result so that I can get back to doing
the work I like doing. like me writing a
book is the is the most fulfill like is
my favorite thing in the entire world.
Us doing these podcasts is some of the
best moments that I get to have in my
life. Um uh like twice a month I'll have
uh business owners who come out that are
bigger that were that are like kind of
like not portfolio ready but like
they're they're doing usually like you
know five to you know $25 million a year
like right in that range. And I get to I
spent a whole day with those 10
businesses and it's like and I tell them
I'm like this is the best. Like
I love this. This is my favorite thing
in my entire life. Um but it's it's
everything that's not that. Uh and Basos
talks about the overhead, right? And I
think it's when the overhead starts to
become a disproportionate amount of your
of your time. And I think that at every
level of at least entrepreneurship, I
get these periods where the overhead
just becomes bigger and bigger and
bigger until I fix it, right? Right. And
so like for us, I had I think I I told
you I'll tell everybody publicly like I
had I think eight or nine lawsuits
within um like 30 days at the beginning
of this year. And so I was like, "Okay,
that sucked." And then I'll tell you the
story that happened on top of this just
to give everyone some context. Um Ila
had a health thing. She went to the
doctor to get it checked out and uh Rea
was with her and uh I was like, "Hey,
you know, how's it going? what's going
on? Um, and she had said earlier like
she can't get in. I was like, what? What
does that even mean? And then and then
the next text I got from the EA was she
has cancer. And so I remember reading
that text and being
like, okay, uh, all right. This is
reality now. Uh, like this is now the
new frame. And I sat with it just long
enough to enrich and absorb that
concept. Sick. Yeah. And so then I was
like, all right. And so I'm thinking,
okay, like chemo, like what do we need
to do diet? Why? Like I'm already
thinking through this stuff and I was
like, okay, what kind of cancer is it?
What state? Like that's what I'm I'm
going with this. So I asked for more
details and she was like, oh my god, no.
The reason that it was delayed was
because the front desk girl has cancer
and she just messed something up and
that was what she was using as her
excuse. Laya doesn't have cancer. And I
was like, oh, she does have this other
stuff, right? But she doesn't have
cancer. And the the thing is is that Ila
after that occurred when I hung out with
her later that night um was, you know,
obviously annoyed at whatever issue she
was dealing with. But for me, I was
like, I saw her and I just gave her this
big hug and I was like, "Hey." I was
like, "You don't have
cancer." And so it's crazy. There's the
exact example of gratitude. This
terrible thing. And just kidding, it's
not a thing anymore. And now I'm really
grateful that you have the terrible
thing that you have now. At least it's
not cancer. And so, um, to bring this
back, that all still happened in the
same period of time. Um, and Chris
mentioned this earlier, uh, I don't know
if this before the spot, but like I, uh,
I, there was a, there was a mishap with
printing, um, my next book that's coming
out. And, um, the equivalent of one and
a half acres of trees um, basically
became unusable because there were
sufficient errors in the book that I I
couldn't in good EV, you know, in good
conscious kind of like the can. And it's
like how bad of a mess up does the does
it have to be on the can for me not to
sell it, right? And like I had to have
this internal I was like maybe I could
make it a thing like hey our our books
had some mess ups and we're and I was
like no one's going to care. No one's
going to care. They're just going to
remember that they got a up book.
And so I had to destroy those, right?
And so I I could I I have like seven
more massive ones, but I'm not going to
get into it. Um but the beauty of of
this entire thing was I got to have this
experience. um of being forced to say,
"Okay, is there a world where I'm going
to have to endure more of this?" And the
answer to that if I continue to do what
I'm doing is yes. And so I need to build
a legal team, which is what I've now
built. And I like and so there's these
things and all of a sudden now am I
better at gratitude or did I solve the
problem? I don't know. I'd be like
really like I I want to be real. I don't
know. But as of May 1st, things are a
little better. And my actual health, for
anybody who's a health nut, my HRV
average was about 32. Um, and I'd have
many, many low 20s days for a
36-year-old active male. Pretty bad. Um,
and since May, like May 1st, uh, I'm I'm
up like 15 points on my HRV. And I have
changed nothing. Like I like I eat the
same, I work out the same, I'm pretty
routine oriented. The only thing that
has changed was the decision that 2025
I'm not I'm not I'm not tossing out 2025
like and I started in the beginning of
the year and I was talking to a good
friend of mine and he was like dude
bad year. He was like He's like
stop saying that. And I was like
you're right I should stop saying that.
Uh it will be a handful of moments over
five months that were spread out and
then the back seven I was like I can
 murder it. Turn this around.
Yeah. Exact. We're turning the ship
around. Right. And so that's I've
actually been like it's almost been like
an exciting thing for me right now. So
I'm I'm I have a little bit of a smile
because I'm I'm pumped for it. Personal
observation, you get absolutely better
returns at the top ends of achievement
because often times assets pull to the
winners. The problem is to achieve the
highest levels, you have to give up
proportional amounts of the things you
hoped the achievements would get you.
There comes a time when the hard work
you have to do is learning that you
can't work any harder any longer and
that you have to change what got you
here to what will get you to where you
want to go. You can work to get anything
you want, but you have to sacrifice the
other things you want to keep it. And
that's sometimes harder than the work.
Yeah. 2025
in the day. Yeah. Um the the the hard
remains the same. Actually, I've I've
given this a huge amount of thought. So
like what makes something hard like just
in and of itself like what actually
makes something hard and so if we think
about this as an aversive stimulus or a
negative stimulus then you have because
habituation happens on both sides and
this is what I think is so fascinating
because it's like okay well you know I
wanted this big thing to happen I wanted
the Rolls-Royce I wanted the Ferrari
whatever save my whole life and here I
am right and I was happy for a week and
then all of a sudden I got used to it
right so I was like why can't I
habituate to the suck right why can't I
habituate to the suck and the thing is
is that you do the only thing is that
what makes the suck keep sucking is what
makes punishment effective, which is
increasing intensity and variety. And so
if you want to effectively punish
someone, you can't just keep punching in
the same way. You have to increase
intensity and change how you do it. And
the beautiful thing is that life doesn't
fight fair. And so life will change the
intensity and will give you more
variety. I mean, how many times you been
like, I didn't know life could suck in
this way.
Like like this is a new one, you know,
like wow. Like you spin the roulette of
life and you're like, "Oh, here's
another one that sucks. My dick was
kicked from another angle." Yeah,
exactly. Congratulations. Had no idea.
And so, so in thinking about that, it
was like, okay, I think the reason that
the hard persists is because the nature
of the currency that you pay or that you
exchange for the thing that you want
changes because in the very beginning,
you basically have to like, you know,
conquer your friends and family who tell
you that this might be a bad idea. Okay,
fine. You get over that. And then you
have to conquer yourself into the most
basic level of like I have to do
something. Okay. So you start you start
taking action. You start learning you
start learning how to learn stuff which
is learning through failure and learning
through. So you start doing that and you
realize you're not going to die if you
fail. Okay. Then after that then it's
like okay but then now you have this
dramatic skill deficiency. Right? So you
have to very quickly level up in a ton
of different things um in whatever
whatever domain you're in. Right? And
then that that has many failure loops
that have we have we have we habituated
to failure? No. it's too it's too uh
generalized. So the failures that that
occur are specific and so it's just like
oh I didn't know I could fail in this
way, right? Like we had an event um so
we we hold an event at our at at our
headquarters uh like monthly and when
people come out I remember it was like
three times in a row there was this
thing at the front desk that got messed
up and I was like how like it was the
can thing. I was like how
how right and I swear to God they I got
I got the message back and they said um
well the system messed up in a different
way this
and I was like same issue new route
exactly and I was like and it it
happened three times in total and so it
was the same problem three completely
they're like well we fixed that version
of the problem but then this one came up
and so it's like it still sucked and so
the thing is is that I think failure is
our our habituation to failure is so
narrow that every new type of failure
there. All three of those hurt. Micro
novelty. Yes. And so um and so when I
think about that is like when like my
like I said this year financially has
been the best year of my life, right?
And so that's been awesome. Um but I've
had all of these I mean I've had uh I've
had health stuff le health health stuff
that was separate. We had legal things
which is another another whole thing.
Business stuff, book stuff. Yeah,
there's Yeah, there's the book and then
there's stacking stuff. Yeah, there's a
lot of things. Um, and so all of those
things happened and I was like, oh, I
was like, so it's just that the currency
has changed, the currency that I'm
paying. And so I'm very happy to pay the
long hours currency. I'm very happy to
pay the what am I willing to give up in
terms of social life. Like that to me,
I've habituated to that price. That's
not hard for me. I I don't even consider
it a sacrifice anymore, which is I think
what you want because people people will
sometime maybe see you or maybe they'll
see me and think of like the Gogggins uh
you know, work until your eyes blade.
thing is is that like and maybe maybe I
don't know Gogggins but well I'll just
speak for
myself I don't I don't really push that
hard like I don't really push I do it
and I've already habituated to this like
this is not this is not an excess for me
pushed in the initial to get up to the
moment and now yeah and I I like we
worked so I had my whole team in a in a
boardroom at the very beginning you saw
my my timer so I have a timer that's
well on my phone it has like 22 and a
half hours on it and so What I've been
doing is I've been challenging the team
to they wanted to do a 12-week project
and I said, "Hey, can we do it in seven
days, right?" And not only are we going
to do it in seven days, we're going to
actually see how many actual hours does
it take of us working together to get
this done. And my hope is that we get
the whole thing done in under 50 hours
with eight guys. And so I'm like, "Okay,
so we can shrink what was once going to
be 3 months into this period of time."
And so over the last two days, we just
did this and I'm going to do it again
tomorrow. um is that everyone was
starting to work at 7 and continued
didn't really leave the boardroom except
for like to use the restroom until about
9:00 at night. And so you're talking 12
14 hour days but like on the whole time
and the thing is and this is what's this
is what's crazy every single guy who was
in that room texted me afterwards was
like that was awesome like I
wish we could work like this all the
time. And so like I don't think like we
talk about work and what makes work hard
and all these things, but
like most of the things once you learn
how to work, the work itself is
self-reinforcing and you enjoy it. It's
everything else that you didn't know you
were going to have to sacrifice so that
you could get back to working. And so
that's that's where I've had to really
consider this uh Bulgarian method
approach. So, we talked about um a
powerlifter friend of yours who like he
went to go train with the best coach of
all time. And so, there's the Bulgarian
system, which is the same thing uh in
Bulgaria. This tiny little nation
disproportionately out competes in
Olympic lifting. And the way that they
do it is they have a system which
basically just breaks everyone who does
it except for the one person who can
sustain it and he becomes champion. And
so I actually see business unfortunately
or fortunately very similar in a lot of
ways which is that the path the uh the
science of achievement is fairly
straightforward right like you have to
pursue high leverage opportunities and
that is the working smart and then if
everyone is working smart then the only
thing left that you have to compete is
working hard right because people say
work smart not hard only works when you
compete against dumb
people like my competition is smart and
they're also working hard and so we both
have to work hard. And so, um, that
price though is has been something that
I've been staring at, um, for myself
because I've never had the aspiration of
being number one. I for at least for me,
it's not in my DNA. I haven't had that
desire to be the richest man in the
world. Not something I care about. And
so then it's it's getting into, okay,
what's the sweet spot that maximizes
enough where I can actually start
looking at some of these other
preferences that I have and say, you
know what, I am no longer willing to
make that trade. And the the other part
of me, we talked about lame earlier,
like oh, the coffee, you know, made your
week. Mhm. To the same degree. Um, oh,
like this is enough for you. Yeah. And
I've actually had a very, I would say
disdainful almost take when I would hear
somebody
who, okay, I well, take this. Fine. I'll
take take this whatever you want. Um,
you know, someone gets to a few million
dollars a year and they're like, that's
it. you know, I made it and I and and I
have to fight against this is what I'm
working on. Um I see that and I'm like
out of the game. Like he's out. He's
out. Yeah. Done. Like just quit too
soon. Yeah. Yeah. Like there's so much
so much juice left to squeeze, right?
But then it's like well the the thing is
is that the the juice that that comes
out is your output and the thing that's
being squeezed is
you. And so that's what I've been
thinking a lot about. Look at that
person. Yeah. who gets to however much a
year. 50 grand, 100 grand, a million, 2
million, 10 million. And they go,
"That's enough." Yeah. Who won of Yeah.
Because that person finished their race
way before you. Way before you. You're
the You're the that's
still running. Let me tell you this
story. So, my first gym ever, I had my
first manager who worked there. Um, and
he was a trainer. He was awesome. Best
trainer I ever had. and I promoted him
to manager. And with that pay raise, um,
he went from something in the
neighborhood of like $25,000 a year as a
trainer, uh, paid by session to getting
a salary of like $45,000 a year, which
for me was a ton of money at the time
when I was paying somebody else, right?
And uh, he did it for 6 months, crushed
it, did an amazing job, and he said,
"Hey man, can I talk to you after work
today?" I was like, "Yeah, sure, man.
What's up?" Like you're like, "You're
doing great, whatever." He says, "Um,
hey, I um I don't I don't want to be I
don't want to be manager anymore." And I
was like, "What do you mean you're
you're quitting?" He's like, "No, no,
no. I I just I just want to be a
trainer." And I was
like, "But I mean, but you realize your
your pay would get cut in half. Like
that like that doesn't really make
sense." And he just looked at me and I
still I remember this to this day. He
looked at me, he's like, "I'll just be
poor
then." And I and I it was like it was
like it was like a it was it was like a
bomb dead. I was like And I looked at
and I was I was literally speechless.
And I just
said, I respect it, but I will never
understand
it. And the thing is is that he is to
this day, I got to see him 10. I got to
see him three weeks ago, first time in
like 10
years. He was then the happiest person I
ever met. And today or when I just saw
him, just as happy. And he's like,
"Dude, I mean, I can't can you believe
that we were starting that gym and you
were at the floor?" And you know, we're
cing some of those old stories. He's
like, "Look what you have, man. all this
stuff and I was like, "Dude, you won."
Like, I'm still trying to catch up to
you. And that was uh a lot of the
conversation that we had. A quick aside,
if you've been feeling a bit sluggish,
your testosterone levels might be the
problem. They play a huge role in your
energy, focus, and performance. But most
people have no idea where those are or
what to do if something's off, which is
why I'm such a huge fan of function. I
wanted a smarter and more comprehensive
way to work out what's happening inside
of my body. And twice a year they run
lab tests that monitor over a 100
biomarkers and their team of expert
physicians then analyze the data and
give you actionable advice to improve
your health and lifespan. Seeing your
testosterone levels and dozens of other
biomarkers charted across the course of
a year with actionable insights to
actually improve them gives you a clear
path to making your life better. And
getting your blood work drawn and
analyzed like this would usually cost
thousands. But with function it's just
$499. And for the first thousand Modern
Wisdom listeners, you get $100 off,
bringing it down to 399 bucks. So you
can get the exact same blood panels that
I get and save another $100 by going to
the link in the description below or
heading to
functionhealth.com/modernwisdom. That's
functionhealth.com/modern wisdom. The
problem is to achieve the highest
levels, you have to give up proportional
amounts of the things you hope the
achievements would get you. Yeah. What's
that?
I'll give a micro example of a sacrifice
that I've chosen to reverse, which is
that I love training. I love working
out. I've been I've been doing it. It
was it was my first love, the first
thing I ever liked, like really got
obsessed with. And over probably the
last, you know, however many years, I
still obviously trained. I was still,
you know, in shape. But my training was,
you know, sometimes two days a week,
sometimes three days a week. It would
be, you know, 60 minutes, maybe 90 if I
got lucky. Um, and I had this
realization. And it was during this
year, 2025, where I was like, you
know, I have all this money and
I can do whatever I want. And I was
like, and I can't even have my workout
be as long as I want it to be. And so I
basically made a rule for myself that I
will not work out if I am rushed. That's
the deal. And so I will work out for as
long as it takes to work out and that's
that. And so that means that if my
workout takes two hours or it takes two
and a half hours or I'm with a friend
and it takes three hours because we're
just like talking between sets and
having a great time. There are three
things in this world that bring me joy.
Working out with somebody that I like,
eating food with somebody that I like
ideally after I worked out and writing.
The three things that bring me the most
joy in life. And I was like, why am I
sacrificing one of the only three things
in this world that I know that I enjoy
to get something that I hoped would buy
me the freedom to work out as much as I
wanted whenever I wanted. And so what
are the things that I put on the altar
of the success? What are the things that
I sacrificed for this this god of
achievement? And I was like, this one
I'm not willing to sacrifice anymore.
And so I think part of the reason that
like has been a life a lifeboat for me
or a life raft while this kind of worst
season has happened is like I put on
like 20 pounds of muscle so far this
year because I've been able to like I've
been using that as a really wonderful
outlet and I was like man and I'm
focusing more on this like my training
partner every day I'm like dude thank
you for doing this with me like this is
this is awesome like this is great like
my I won the day like if I did nothing
else I get to the end of the day and I'm
like I crushed this workout and that was
and that's
It's a big pivot, dude. And it's one
that I
think everybody that's driven by the
sort
of hatred of past self, whip yourself
into submission, Puritan work ethic
thing will inevitably come to realize
after a time. There may be some outlier
for whom their their capacity for
discomfort and for sacrifice is
literally greater than the duration of
their life. Yeah. That they would have
got there eventually. They just died
first. Yeah. You know, and but I think
that for most people it's not. And you
reach I would call it something like
sort of uh lifestyle escape velocity uh
where you go I'm I all of the objective
metrics are right and the subjective
ones aren't. which is a good example uh
of sort of what you've hinted at. And
you
go, how can I assume that the solution
is fixing subjective metric problems
with more objective metrics and and and
then and and I'll say this for anybody
who's in the season where like listen,
you're 22 years old and you're like, I
need to work my face off. You do. You
need to you need to work your face off.
But the thing is is like there will get
to a point we're fast forwarding, you
know, however many years, but there's
nothing like I don't regret the amount
of work that I've done. Um, and I and I
I I don't regret it at all. And I think
that it was absolutely the right
decision. And I work a lot now.
But people make this extrapolated
moment. They take a moment of your life
and they will extrapolate it to forever
and assume that if you change your mind
that what you did before this was wrong,
but it wasn't wrong. it was right for
that time and then we got feedback
during a different time and this is
right for me now and so I'm going to
course correct now and if something else
changes guess what you're free to change
your mind tomorrow. Yeah. I I love this
and I think about it so much
that one of the issues with asking
anybody who's successful for advice is
that they tell you what they do now.
Yeah. Not what they did when they were
in your position. Thousand%. And you
should not ask somebody how are you
maintaining your success right now. How
did you achieve your success when you
were at the stage that I was at? That is
the question that you need to ask.
And it's the same thing.
And stupid people see somebody changing
their mind as a weakness, not as a
strength.
And if you are the sort of person who
goes, "Huh, this strategy worked for me
previously or didn't or I thought it
worked for me and it
didn't, I'm going to update the way that
I operate." Perfect example. I've been
on this sort of a flex similar to
yourself. I would say my uh lifestyle
escape velocity, I needed to reach a
lower altitude than you. So, I was, you
know, getting into coast uh as opposed
to still using the booster rockets
earlier. Um, but I started talking about
how uh like purposeful
deoptimization uh you know what is it
that you're doing the things for?
Transitioning from the work until your
eyes bleed to a different mode of of
reward and stuff like that. And some
people that I think don't understand me
super well, which is fine because no
one's supposed to understand you,
especially not random people on the
internet, but people will see snippets
of whatever's been sort of the most
salient narrative. And uh a bunch of
them said something to the effect of,
"Uh, bro sold us the problem, now he's
selling us the solution." Yeah. And I
was like, "Huh, that's really
interesting." Because what I'm doing is
saying, "This works for me right now."
And what I was saying in the past was
this works for me right now. Nothing has
changed. And this is why there's often
when it comes to sort of internet
advice, it's very patronizing the way
that the audience is treated by people
that are critics as if they're sort of
these
agencyless undiscerning sponges. Yeah.
That are totally incapable of applying
or filtering. Huh? Well, Alex doesn't
have five kids and no wife,
right? Like, I'm a single father, a five
kid. What, you know, living in Brooklyn
and a single bedroom. Okay, I I think
you might need to adapt some of the
things that he's saying or I'm twice as
old or I'm half the age, whatever.
Like, you should ask somebody what they
did when they were at the stage that you
were at, not where they are now.
So many things I want to respond to. So
number
one, my my embedded command to everyone
is use if useful. Use if useful. Number
one. Number two, this is a documentary,
not a sermon. This is a showing, you
know, like at least my content is like
this is me showing what's going on and I
try to be real and that means that if I
change my mind, then it'll change.
Third, model the rise if you want the
rise. Model the plateau if you want the
plateau. And so saying, "Oh, you know,
Warren Buffett says he had a great year
if he only makes one good decision."
It's like saying, "Oh, to get rich, I
should fly
private." Doesn't really work that way.
I should play basketball. I want to get
tall. It's your you're you're conflating
variables, right? I should I should go
to the gym once I have energy. I should
start saving money once I'm rich. Uh
like that's when I'll do it. It's just
it just conflates sequence, right? It's
a win-win fallacy. Um, and
so I think the the man I I haven't
talked about this in in I don't I don't
even know if I ever talked about
this. The greatest skill is the ability
to discern what things to use and what
things to cast out. It is the is it is
the the the central narrative of noise
versus signal. And the reason that I've
spent such a disproportionate amount of
time focused on behavior was because
there's so much noise that if people
cannot translate their quote advice into
what I should do, then there's nothing
useful about it. Which is why I think
the density of useful information uh
people I think people are blood hounds
for value. Um, but I think that value
gets translated
most in the most crystallized,
distilled, concentrated manner when it
can be translated into do this instead
of that. Period. And everything else,
the amorphous words that people use,
especially the, you know, the motivation
manifesto, the the the or just
manifestation, we'll get into that one.
Uh, people get triggered on that. Um,
that is what leads more people astray.
And so they take the entirety of someone
and without all of the other conditions
that apply to that person and say, "Oh,
I will take this and apply it to my
life." And if you cannot pull out what
is useful for
you, you will never win. And that is a
really strong statement, but because all
you're going to be doing is trying to,
and I love this is my favorite tweet
that I've heard from um Andrew Wilkinson
from Tiny.
M here are the numbers for my winning
lottery
ticket. Every entrepreneur explaining
how they were successful. And so like
the next Google isn't a search engine,
right? The best version of your life
isn't copying Hormosi or copying
Williamson. It's being able to with
nuance apply the principles that are
generalizable across domains but then
having the
wherewithal yeah the discernment to
apply the nuance to your specific
circumstance and being able to map those
two things I think is the skill that has
gotten me the disproportionate return on
my life. I have bought and I've been
public about this. I've been, you know,
very the earlier part of my career is
very involved in what I would consider
the alternative education, you know,
space, right? People, you know, the the
courses, the the world that has, I would
say, a relatively bad reputation. But I
have yet in my life to have purchased
anything from anyone that I have not had
an exceptional return from. And is that
because of them or is that because of
me? Who knows? But I can say that when I
even had bad experiences, I could say
these are all the things that I will not
do to a customer. And then I have my
notebook of the the crinkled can and the
end that's off the center. And that
ability to
observe and pause before immediately
taking action. Like there are some
people that I have met where I know I'll
tell you this story because it's it's
heartbreaking. I've helped a lot of gyms
in my career is, you know, probably my
second season of entrepreneurship. Um,
one of the things that we'll do to a gym
to make it more profitable is we, you
know, we adjust pricing. Sometimes we
write send a price raise letter and
this, you know, this thing's tested. We
that, we've done it hundreds of times. A
guy, you know, reaches out and said,
"Hey, I did your the whole price raise
and 90% of my members left." And I was
like, "What? Like what h like how what
happened?" And so he explained that he
had a $29 a month gym and then he raised
it to $200 a
month. That only works when you're a
service business, not a what I consider
a facility usage business where you're
just like $10 a month crunch and it's
just like you can use the gym whatever
you want. You have equipment. My model
was for people who had trainers and who
who were teaching, you know, classes or
sessions or semi-privates. And so in
those instances, if you're at 99 and you
go to to $200, you're not going to lose
half your customers. You might lose a
third, but you still make more money,
you have more profit, etc. But he had
taken what is otherwise something that
has made so many gyms profitable and
successful and he applied it to a
specific context. Now he says, I'm a gym
owner. He said gym stuff. Why did but
then what happens is for you and I or
anybody who wants to make content if I
were to say okay under these situations
under this part you know particular
context if you have a decent
relationship with your customers and you
have ongoing communication then you can
say it's like you you don't it takes 10
minutes of disclaimers to get to the
point right and so then this is why
fundamentally like winners will always
win because they will still be able to
find you know the the silver lining even
in the terrible experiences that will
make them better And my favorite my
favorite visualization of the type of
person that I want to be is and this is
a a Harry Potter reference. Uh but the
sword of Gryffindor uh was made of
dwarven steel and dwarfven steel in the
in the mythology of Harry Potter um
could only take in that which made it
stronger. And so it's not to say that
the sword of Gryffindor couldn't cut
butter or couldn't you know uh just get
into a sword fight, but if it happens to
you know kill a basilix then it will
absorb the poison of the basilisk. So
like so many people lose because they
want to prove that this too did not work
when in reality it was that you don't
know how to make it work and it has been
easier for you to complain and say this
did not work the way that I would prefer
right rather than like how can I make
this work for me how can I turn this
into something that has been that can
still be a W. And I think that one
skill has probably been the single
unlock that I've been able to have
because like I I learned these
alternative, you know, the this this
alternative world of education of like
how do you sell, how do you how do you
run ads, how do you how do you sell, you
know, courses, how do you do coaching,
all this stuff that has a really
negative kind of vibe. But the thing is
is the fundamentals of persuasion there
are so powerful. They were just being
used to sell stuff that's not good. But
the thing is is that there's so much
buyer resistance there that if you can
sell stuff in that market, when you go
to sell
insurance, you murder. And so I
think people fail to take into
consideration the context of the person
who's given the advice and what piece is
useful that they should use and the rest
you can cast
away. Figure out what you want. Ignore
the opinions of others. Do so much work
it would be unreasonable that you fail.
Realize it never mattered to begin with.
Help others once you get there. You've
already achieved the things you said
would make you
successful. Yeah. The first five steps
there is my um is basically my my master
life
plan. Um figure out what you
want
which my first boss um I had I I had a
pretty terrible first out of college
experience of work. Um but from that I
learned some of the most important life
lessons that I still take to this day.
And uh that boss particularly said one
thing to me one day. She said um
figuring out what you want is 99% of it.
She said once you know what you want
getting it is the easy part. And I I
kind of adopted that as a worldview
because it's like once you're really
clear like this is what I want
everything that's not that is what I'm
willing to give up to get it.
Now that thing can change and I think
that's the part that people miss is that
like once you learn how to get stuff
then it's like okay well he said he was
willing to do it's like yeah well the
thing I wanted changed is do I have your
permission to change what I want and I
think we should all have permission to
change what we want in any given moment
and not having basically sunk life bias
of like I put 10 years into this thing
and that's okay and that's what I needed
to do at that time and today I'm willing
to I'm going to change everything. And
what's really interesting about if you
look at like addicts and alcohol people
who need to you know quit you know uh
whatever bad habit they have there's a
really strong frame Ed Mlet talks about
it which is basically one more
and it's been super helpful for me to
not think of my changes as permanent
because it's been it's allowed me to
make such dramatic changes in my in my
life or my business much faster than I
think most people have been willing too
because there's this this weight of
forever on top of everything. Like we
extrapolate like you're in a
relationship. She told me to pick up my
socks. She's going to nag at me forever
the rest of my life. We need to break
up, right? Or I can do this for today
and tomorrow if it still works, I will
do it for tomorrow. And if 5 days from
now or 25 days from now, if I work this
way, I then say, you know what, I need a
day. People like, oh, he's burned out.
It's like, I took a day cuz that's what
I needed that day. And I think giving
myself permission to have that freedom
has allowed me to take significantly
faster action in what apparently looks
like higher risk scenarios because who
am I apologizing to?
Realize it never mattered to begin with.
What's
that? Cosmic irrelevance. So like we're
willing to sacrifice everything that we
have for the thing that we want. And
then once we get the thing that we want,
we want back the things that we
sacrificed, which really just goes to
the heart of the human condition, which
is we want it
all. And we're not willing to make
trades. And so one of the reasons that
I've actually, I would say, largely
tossed out the deathbed regrets of most
people is that what they do typically is
they will have the bias of wanting the
other path they could have taken without
considering the cost of that path. So
they say, "Hey, I was really successful
and I did all these things, but you
know, I I would give it all up today to
have my family." It's like, well, yeah,
but you didn't because you actually
chose the path that you're on and you
weren't willing to do that. But what you
are saying right now is that you want it
all. Sure. So does everyone. And so, um,
I've had a, you know, a few moments of
clarity over the last, you know, year or
so, but if you want it all, life will
give you nothing.
And that has been helpful for me because
in pursuit of we want everything without
the cost and everything has a price and
you will never be able to get the
sufficient price tag paid on everything
to reach critical mass to achieve a
monocative success in any domain unless
you are willing to trade from another.
And I think that that has significantly
minimized my regret. Before we continue,
if you struggle to stay asleep because
your body gets too hot or too cold, this
is going to help. Eightlee just released
their brand new Pod 5, which includes
the world's first temperature regulating
duvet. Pair it with their smart mattress
cover, which warms or cools each side of
the bed by up to 20°, and now you've got
your own climate controlled cocoon built
for deep, uninterrupted rest. The new
base even comes with a built-in speaker
so you can fall asleep to white noise,
nature sounds, or a little ambient
Andrew Huberman if that's your thing.
Plus, it's got upgraded biometric
sensors that quietly run health checks
every night. It spots patterns like
abnormal heartbeats, disrupted
breathing, or sudden changes in HRV. And
it still tracks all of the essentials
like your sleep time, sleep phases, HRV,
snoring, heart rate, all with 99%
accuracy. And it'll even stop warming or
cooling your bed an hour before you get
into it. Which is why Eightleep's been
clinically proven to increase total
sleep by up to 1 hour every night. Every
single person I've got on to Eight Sleep
has had their life changed by it. I
wouldn't keep hopping on about it if it
wasn't a massive game changer. So, I
highly recommend that you try it. And
they've got a 30-day sleep trial. So,
you can buy it and sleep on it for 29
nights. And if you don't like it,
they'll just give you your money back.
Plus, they ship internationally. Right
now, you can get up to $350 off the Pod
5 by going to the link in the
description below by heading to
8LE.com/modernwisdism using the code
modernwisdom a checkout. That's
ei.com/modernwisdom and modern wisdom a
checkout. We give up our 20s for our
30s. We give up our 30s for our 40s, our
40s for our 50s. And we trade everything
we achieved in our 30s, 40s, and 50s to
get back to our 20s.
We give up the thing we
have most of for the thing that we have
least of. And we give up the thing that
we want for the thing that's supposed to
get it.
Right. I I I will become happy when I'm
sufficiently successful. And I will
sacrifice my happiness in pursuit of
success so that I can become
sufficiently successful so I can finally
be happy. Yeah. We're the problem. Yeah.
That that's that's that's reliably the
takeaway. But I think it's a really
really good point. this
um like retrospective life reprogramming
thing that people do uh
where we spend our 20s wanting to be
richer and older and have a family. Then
we start that in our 30s and we gain
more wealth and do the family thing and
then we get back to get to our 40s and
we've got more responsibilities. We've
accumulated all of this stuff and then
we think, "God, if only I could go back
to my 20s." But you were
miserable in your 20s. This is a great
uh lesson from Morgan Hel. Fantastic. I
think I sent you the nostalgia artist.
Yeah. Um people should just search
nostalgia uh what's his fund called?
 Uh collaborative fund. Nostalgia
collaborative fund. It's a great essay.
Um and in it he's talking to his wife
and Morgan's wife is uh discussing with
him what their plans are when the kids
are going to move out. And Morgan starts
talking about their time in their 20s
where they could lie in on a Sunday
morning and and and they didn't have any
responsibilities and the kids didn't
need taken to soccer practice. And he
says, "Well, God, wasn't that the golden
years? Like how amaz do you remember? Do
you remember how amazing that was?" His
wife turns to him and she goes, "Honey,
you were miserable. You hated it. You
had no idea whether you were going to be
successful. You were constantly
concerned about money. You were
desperately needing validation from all
of these people around you. you were
were permanently in dissatisfaction
about this stuff. And he realized that
in retrospect he knew that all of his
worries were a waste of time, but at the
time he had no assurance that they
weren't something he should fret about
and keep himself up at
night. We already know how the movie
ends when we go back and say we want to
relive it. And you can't relive it into
the same context because uncertainty is
the largest part of the story.
I had a personal example that was
similar to this which was Leila and I
were talking and um I said you know when
we you know didn't do any of the
speaking and all this other stuff that
we're doing and all we did was just own
the portfolio companies and get
distributions I was like man life was so
chill like we just we could do whatever
the we wanted you know we we didn't
have an office like we didn't have to
show up we just did whatever we wanted
and she said you were the worst
[Laughter]
And so, and now we're working like
maniacs, right? I've I I haven't worked
harder than I have in the last 18 months
in a while. Um, and she's like, I prefer
you working the way that we do now to
when you didn't have enough to do.
And so I I I only partially say this for
the one person that this this affects,
which is that like even like we seek
freedom, but it's really that we seek we
seek options. Like the idea of freedom
is a blank calendar, but a blank
calendar that never gets filled is not a
fulfilling day. And so we want the
ability to have whatever we want during
that day. And so I think
being deliberate about what are what are
my what are my good day moments that I
can try and recreate every day. And I
have it on my wall. I have two things on
that are permanently on my in my office
wall. Logic evidence utility
and what does it
mean? How do you know and why does that
matter?
And the other three are work out with
friends, eat food with friends, write
something, my good day formula. And so I
I had the desire for freedom. When you
aren't sure what things to fill that
freedom with, when you know what to fill
the freedom with, then you're willing to
give up optionality because you already
know, you've already pre-selected your
lunch for the day because it's your
favorite meal. And so so you are willing
to make some sacrifices in terms of
flexibility because you'll be able to
have even more of those lunches or write
even more uh by making some of these.
I've tried many lunches and few are
better than this. Yes. Exactly. And I I
do think uh the perennial creatures of
habit like you are and I think certainly
I am as well. Um there is
a a tendency to disparage new options.
So, no, no, no, no. I already know the
best lunch. Like, uh, you maybe, maybe.
And, yeah, you've tried a lot of
lunches. That's good. But do you really
like you're So, what? So, you're never
ever going to try another new lunch?
Yeah. Huh? Well, okay. So, maybe. But
also, how much of that How much of that
could be you excusing the pain of
adventure and the pain of potential
failure? A bad lunch. I might try a new
lunch and it might be worse. What a
 waste that would be. Look at all
the time that I've put into trying
lunches. Look at look at the quality of
lunch I could have had compared with the
new one. And this is a kind of a lesson
of getting older. And this is almost
certainly one of the reasons why
people's openness to experience on ocean
decreases as they get older that they
have this sort of experts fallacy thing.
Um so I've spent time recently around a
lot of people in bands and these guys
are very artistic. Uh they they have uh
studios that are filled with
torn up magazine sheets and like a sock.
Zack, my housemate, had a sock
cellar taped to his wall for the two
years we lived together. I was like,
"What's that doing there?" I don't know.
Um well, why is it there? And he just
cuz he's, you know, covered in tattoos
and playing guitar and and and
writing poetry and doing stuff.
It just to him that doesn't that doesn't
really matter. And I was like, I should
be around people that push me beyond my
limits to do new things more in
different ways. Yes. Yes. Yes. I need
different levels of stimulus there. Just
to linger for one more moment on that uh
sort of nostalgia golden years thing. Um
there's this really really lovely
insight.
Perhaps golden years can only happen in
our memory. Nobody believes that we're
living through a golden era right now.
We never think we're in the good old
days, but the good old days are always
now. Well, sometimes. I mean co probably
wasn't there's somewhat periods during
which people would go that wasn't the
good old days but when you're 85 and you
were 25 in co you give anything
for it. True. True. Yeah. I guess good
good old days can be in many many variet
depends on how bad now is. Correct. Uh
but I'm sure that in the whatever like
the 80s and the '9s in America, how many
people considered they were living
through the golden era? Yeah. Very few.
And yet in retrospect, everybody just
wants Britney Spears back. Do
you know what I mean? Like the old one,
not the new one. She's crazy. Um, that's
what everybody wants. They want this
sort of
Creed, big tackles from American
football, 18wheel articulated lorries,
and big American flags flying. I have
spent a huge amount of mental resources
accepting
suffering and not saying that there's
something wrong with something bad. Like
a huge amount of mental resources has
gone into this because my I I've I've
been better and faster at correcting the
loop of like oh I am not happy with this
particular thing and therefore there is
something wrong. Yeah. So fix the story
that I tell myself as opposed to fix the
thing. And that's been um super helpful
with the addition of everything that I
remember will always be better than it
was. And the nice thing is that there's
tons of science that backs this up,
which is that we learn uh through reward
and punishment. Punishment fades with
time, no matter how bad it was. Like you
get drunk, you get hung over, you say,
"I'll never drink again." 7 days later,
you're out drinking again. Why? The
punishment of the hangover fades
quickly. you are with somebody for a
while, you're like, "This is
crazy." Or, "This guy is crazy." And
then you break up and then all of a
sudden, what do you remember? The good
times. Because reward
sticks. And in some ways, there's a
little bit of a hopeful message there,
which is that when you look back on your
life, you will disproportionately
remember the good times. But it only
becomes a problem if you lament the
present, which is the only thing you've
ever actually lived in. That's the
fading affect bias. Tragedy plus time
equals comedy is the closest thing
psychology has to an equation. Um, all
right, next one. People only root for
others at two times. First, when they're
at the beginning of the race. Second,
when they finish. Neither is when you
need it. So, you have to master the
middle. The boring, exhausting,
soulcrushing middle. That's where the
winning happens on your own. People will
only cheer for you as long as you can't
beat them at the game they value most.
friendly reminder that every person who
doubts you is right until they aren't.
It's a bug, not a
feature. I mean, I feel like as you read
these, you're reading my soul from this
year. Um, I mean, that's why I mean, I I
tweet these every day as they come up
because that's what's top of mind for
me. And, you know, the boring mundane
middle like I think about, you know, the
very very beginning people say, you
know, I'm really excited for you that
you're trying this thing out, right? And
I noticed that everyone was very happy
for me to try because I temporarily
decreased my status. I actually became
worse than them during that period of
time. And then as soon as I achieved a
level of success, which I then realized
that their happiness for me was
proportional to where they were on the
ladder relative to me. And so as soon as
I passed some people, then they stopped
being happy and then they start, you
know, you know, uh, saying bad things,
right? And the people who were still
always ahead were still like, "Keep it
up. Keep it up." And there's still
people who have been that way my whole
life. And I just wonder if and when I
pass them, will they flip? I don't know.
But also to the same degree, it was the
it was after you start the race when
you're in the thick of it because you'll
quickly pass the people who've done
nothing. But then you have this long
period of time where you don't catch up
to the people who've been doing it for a
long time and that's the part where it's
very lonely because you don't have your
initial your initial posy. You have to
leave them at some point. Um, but then
you don't get to the new group that's,
you know, way ahead and actually has
some some proof behind them that you can
actually like sit at the table. And so
like today I have, if I were to do
something, I have tons of support, but I
don't really need the support now. I
need I I needed it in the middle, right?
In the many years that like no one knew
who Alexi was. Um, and that's that's
that's the hard part. And I think it's
it's the story that Morgan Hassel tells,
which is that you just don't know how
it's going to finish. And that's what
makes it hard is the uncertainty of like
what if I give up everything that I've
done in my life for nothing and then all
of a sudden if I knew that then I
wouldn't be willing to make this trade.
But in retrospect when you do have the
thing you're like of course I was like
if I knew that this was going to happen
I'd be I would I would happily make the
trade. But you don't know. And so you're
just putting the money down and they're
rolling it. But you get to find out if
you hit black five years from
now. Yeah. It's it it's why dealing with
uncertainty is such a meta skill and
it's one that I to be honest it's one
that I really suck at. I'm I'm very very
not good at dealing with uncertainty. My
uh
required line of assurance in order for
me to commit to a decision is incredibly
high. Which is why I've basically never
failed at anything that I've done. M all
of the stuff that I've done uh a string
of incredibly
slow but very reliable successes is just
because my required number of uh sort of
justification points is very high and
you know in retrospect it might look
like it was a risk. It's like dude I I
took so long to make this
decision. It's not I I knew that I
wanted to move to America for
ages years and years before I actually
ended up doing it and it took a long
time for me to commit to that decision.
I knew that I wanted to pivot out of
nightife for a good while before I got
myself to the stage where I was prepared
to do that. On the on the friend point,
it's a a painful realization that the
small number of good friends want you to
win in case you take them with you. And
the large number of bad friends are
scared of you winning in case you leave
them behind.
The best way to
know who a real friend is is how they
react when you win. And when that
happens, you'll realize how few real
friends you really have. Mhm. I I mean,
look, I don't know whether it's just
some sort of cosmic blessing or
whatever, but or maybe I'm discerning
with friends, I don't know. Or maybe
it's small circle thing or whatever. Um
it's been very rare that that's that
I've been on the receiving end of that.
um that I've I've ended up being around
as soon as I left the UK. And even the
people that I was around in the UK, I'
chosen a relatively small group of
people, but all of them like
still now to this day love we're still
in touch. We still we still support each
other and I keep I'm loving seeing what
they're doing.
But I get the sense that if you're a
little bit more open, if the circle's a
little bit more open, there is a huge
amount of incentive for you to listen to
people who do not have your best
interests at heart. And they
suck. And those people need to get out
of your
life. One of my rules is you should only
take advice from people whose dreams for
your life are bigger than yours are,
which is a very small number of people.
Sometimes it's your parents. Sometimes
your parents really do have bigger
dreams for you than you do in different
ways as well. In ways that you don't
notice. I mean, I think the the closest
approximation to yourself is a spouse.
It's the most it's the most tactically
aligned person that you can have. Still,
obviously, there are some spouses who
are are not good, but I can say that I
think Leila's dreams for me have been in
many ways bigger or ahead of where my
dreams for me have been. Um, and I have
big dreams. And, you know, listening to
her um has has has yielded really great
returns.
But to the point that you were saying
earlier about those those friends that
were kind of with you in the early days,
I think it's actually cyclical.
So the people who are closest to you in
the beginning, if they're like true like
actual friends, then you recognize that
because they actually want you to win
and that's amazing. A lot of people
don't have that. And so what I have felt
at least for me was that when you're a
little ahead is where the friction is.
when you blow them out of the water and
there's no question like it's it's
beyond reproach. They will do one of two
things. They will either be really happy
for you or they'll change the game that
they're beating you
at. That's great, but I'm in better
shape. That's great, but my marriage is
better, right? Like or whatever, you
know, whatever game that they choose to
play. And so I think the last um the
last quote that you had there about um
friendly reminder that every person who
doubts you is right until they aren't.
It's a bug, not a feature. It's not a
bug, it's a feature.
Yeah, people who doubt you will be right
most of the time and this further
increases your uncertainty about the
path that you're choosing to
take. But on a long enough time horizon,
most people who don't bet are guaranteed
to lose. And so they get to win at being
right more times than you get to win at
being right. But what that equation
doesn't take into consideration is
intensity, which is can I be so right
one time that it makes all of the times
that I was wrong irrelevant? And in the
nature of life, the answer is yes,
almost a resounding yes for just about
every domain. Like everyone can say that
every person you've ever dated has
sucked and they could predict that
you're going to break up until you find
the person that you're going to marry
and in that moment who cares
about the other 90 people that you went
on dates with that everybody said was a
bad idea or that you have a bad picker
or you don't have a good taste. It's
like well you're not marrying them. I
date in a way that's different than than
you would prefer. Great. But I did end
up finding this thing. I the you know
the first thing that I ever did was you
know an online an online fitness thing
and it kind of worked and then I did my
first gym and it kind of worked and then
I started all these other other side
side projects. I got distracted and I
didn't know and many people were like
sure like good luck with that. But I
knew that they just weren't really
rooting for me. They were rooting for me
to fail. They were rooting for me the
wrong way. And
so the downside risk is significantly
smaller and more
frequent. It's both. You're more likely
to lose and it's more likely to happen
more times. It's just that upside is
uncapped. And so, and I think about this
one a lot. So, there's the story of the
guy. Do you know the guy who wrote
Jingle Bells? No. So, I didn't even know
that that was I thought it was like
Happy Birthday. I thought he was just
gifted to humanity when when we started.
So, there's this guy. He's a he's a it's
he has the most tragic life you can
imagine just like an a complete like you
don't know his name right I can't even
remember his name right has did nothing
but failed was a failed everything and
his entire life was nothing he just
happened to write this small thing
called jingle bells and it has become
you know the number one song at
Christmas time like maybe globally and I
think about that life where it's like
what if I failed at everything but then
I have one thing that actually makes a
permanent impact. I was like, would I
trade that life for Aristotle's good
life where I amount to nothing but the
whole time was good? And this is just
one of my eternal battles where I think
with myself that I have no answer for to
be clear. But when I'm when I'm thinking
through the periods where things suck,
I'm like, well, maybe maybe I'll get a
jingle bells out of this and maybe it'll
just take 20 years longer than I thought
on the contribution of other people. The
pessimists get to be right, the
optimists get to be rich. And it's
because of intensity. It's the thing
that it's we are so bad at estimating
value returns. Yeah, we're very it's
very hard for us to compreh comprehend
an outside return. We're very good at
binary thinking of yes, this worked. No,
this didn't work. But we're not very
good at thinking through the bet of I
get 10x and I'm going to lose 50% of the
time. People don't make that bet and
they should do it every time. The reason
that this has been of particular
interest to me is I would consider
myself a criticism hyperresponder.
Um, you know, I I I'm not sure why being
on the outside as a kid, maybe being a
little bit more socially isolated, uh,
only child syndrome, being hideous as,
but I mean, I was like pretty I was a
very late bloomer, right? Um, and you
talk funny. I do talk funny. I did for
the place that I was in as well as the
place that I'm in now. I just had a
career of talking funny in different
places. Um,
but the reason that I'm so averse,
so the reason that I really don't like
people who put down those that are
trying to do something different or have
big dreams is that I know how close I
came to not taking a shot because of the
opinions of other people around me. And
I'm aware this is not super alpha lone
ranger solo degenerate prneur
pill, right? The cannon and the law of
someone that's supposed to be successful
is basically one long middle finger to
all doubters. But this
is what every single Rocky training
montage gets wrong, which
is Rocky never doubted the direction and
the path that he was on. just doubted
whether or not he could get there.
That's not the way the personal growth
happens in my opinion at all. You are
filled with uncertainty. Is this even
working? I I I have no idea if there's
glory on the other side of this. You
know, it's the other it's the other side
of the lonely it's the process of the
lonely chapter. And if you have people
around you that are adding weight onto
the bar that you didn't choose, like,
well, you're just making it
harder for me to stand up. It's already
hard enough for me. And um yeah,
increasingly I just want to be around
people that make me feel good about the
things that I'm trying to do. And I
don't think that that's an unreasonable
demand. And I also think that it can
seem fragile, shallow, or fickle or
uncommitted or needy or um undriven, not
robust. And yet I still want it. And yet
for me, choosing to swim against the
tide just seems like a stupid decision.
So I want people in my life whose dreams
are bigger for me than mine are and who
believe in me more than I do.
And I think when you find people like
that who help you achieve the goals that
you set out to achieve, you realize when
you achieve the goals that they were
more valuable than the goals that
you got. I it's the I said to you before
I'm hopefully about to move into some
sort of a office studio location in
Austin and I've just tapped out my
 solo DGEN energy. Uh you know
you don't work in a cupboard anymore as
much. Um sometimes but not always to my
dismay. Yeah. Where I can't be in the
cupboard where I can't stare at the
wall. Me in platform 9 and 3/4. Um
because I've just run out of that gas
tank and I want to be around people. I
want to be around my friends. I want to
be around the people that I work with
and I want to have a little squad of
people that help, you know, bolster
me. If you talk about work life balance
as a 22-year-old man, you're hanging
around with the wrong people. That
knowing feeling when you realize you've
outgrown your social circle isn't
loneliness. It's your ambition finally
speaking louder than your need to
belong.
And there's a narrative that we should
not criticize ourselves. We should not
say the things that we could have done
better. But I believe that that voice
isn't an insecurity. I think
it's a version that wants you to chase
your potential. And so I think not
judging the criticism, but accepting the
criticism. I think those are the two
separate things.
Um, and I think that's what that's what
unlocks the potential while making it
somewhat palatable along the way. Yeah.
Well, it's it's uncomfortable, right?
You position an ideal, you compare
yourself to that ideal, you find
yourself lacking. There is pain in that.
So, you can either sit with the pain or
you can judge the pain. You mentioned
this earlier on. I call it second order
emotions. Mark Manson calls them meta
emotions. So feeling frustrated at your
anxiousness and then feeling bitter
about your frustration at your
anxiousness and then feeling resentful
about your bitterness at your
frustration about your anxiousness and
you don't have all that much control
over the first ones. Emotions are going
to come and go. You have a lot of
control over the ones that come after
that. Did you tell me the story of uh
Buddha and the second arrow? No. Oh,
it's great.
So the Buddha was trying to teach a
lesson and he says if I um shoot you
with an arrow uh does it hurt and you
know the student was like uh yes it
would be hurtful or like you know that
that would suck. And so he says okay if
I were to shoot you with you know a
second arrow in the same spot after the
first arrow would that hurt? And he said
yes. He said the first arrow is life. He
said you can't avoid the first arrow. He
said but the second arrow is you and
that one you can avoid. And so suffering
is a constant. That's a fixed cost of
life. We're going to have downsides.
We're going to have bad seasons, bad
moments, bad days. But I think a great
rule to live by is like only suffer
once. Like great I and I mean my god. I
think if everyone only suffered once,
like just because I like tiny little
monikers that I can remind myself in the
moment of okay, this happened. I will
only allow it. I will only suffer this
one time. I will not relive this moment
over and over again. I will not judge
myself for not, you know, behaving the
way I would have liked to have behaved.
I will not judge the the the the version
of me that I should have been at this
moment. And round and round you go. It's
like an infinite regress of
self-castigation. Yeah. Right. And so
it's like I want me I want memory
dividends, not memory
liabilities. Yeah. If you talk about
work life balance as a 22-y old man,
you're hanging out with the wrong
people. This goes back to the ask them
what they did when they were at your
stage, not what they do now thing. And
look, I to hear you get within the same
 universe as something
approximating work life balance. Okay,
let's let's calm down here. Don't get
too ahead of yourself. I mean, that that
is a that's a really sort of cosmic
change for you in and your direction.
And as somebody who cares about your
well-being, it's one that I've kind of
been hoping for at some point, a bit of
humanity to come through.
Yeah, you know, to prove and it's I said
it earlier on, dude. It proves that
there is a there is a human inside of
there. I'm being I'm being serious. And
I I think it does a bunch of things. Um
it shows that somebody who is very
staunch about an opinion can change
their mind, which I think is something
that's very admirable. I think it is
significantly more relatable to most
people with a more common level of work
ethic, desire for life outside of it. uh
maybe a broader number of um things than
three. Yeah. You know, on the post-it
note. Um and I think, you know,
selfishly for me, it gives us more to
relate about because uh I have more to
relate about someone who's trying to
navigate what life looks like outside of
work. Um but if you life outside of
work, if you are you're you're slowly
getting that uh you notice that as of
yet, I haven't had some sort of
Cassandra complex about I think I'll
have mentioned if we go back to episode
3 at 4 minutes and 55. Um, I told you
so.
But it might not be okay to work your
life away, but it is okay to work your
20's away.
And so many of the realizations that we
have arrived at are only really
accessible to you because you've closed
the loop of all of the ones that you
needed to first.
So, I want to I want to aggressively
comment on this. So,
everything I said up to this point, I
take it all out. Yeah. Um, no, I I want
to comment on this because I think it's
it's it's meaningful. So, um, number
one, so I um I I would actually
challenge um a couple of the things you
said. Um, the biggest one being like the
just shoulds in general, which is like
you shouldn't work your life away. You
should uh work away your 20s. my
opinion, do whatever the you want.
If you have a goal, then there will be
ways that will increase or decrease the
likelihood to achieve them. And so if
and having simultaneous goals
dramatically decreases the likelihood of
accomplishing any of them. And it's
typically easier to accomplish goals in
sequence or chronologically rather than
in parallel. Y and so if if I were to
say, hey, what are the three, you know,
three goals you have? And you say, one,
two, three, and I say, okay, which of
these three goals is the most important?
Well, then let's work on that one first.
And does that one goal allow us to does
it decrease or does it decrease the
failure rate of the other two goals
which then makes it the most important
goal overall? Sometimes they are uh
dependent on each other. I'm going to
get in shape, get rich, then find a wife
as opposed to I'm going to find a wife,
then try and get rich, then try and get
in shape. Yeah, you'll get dramatically
higher quality talent. Uh for sure. U
but maybe she'll just love you for you.
Who knows? Uh we we can all hope.
Regardless now most
22-year-olds irrespective of domain if
you if if and I that's why I have these
conting like if you seek to be good at
something then you have a tremendous
deficit in experience and repetitions
that people who are ahead of you or who
have achieved what you want to achieve
have over you. And so the only thing
that you have now you do have an
advantage you have a couple. Number one
is that you will have more energy than
they do period. And so your ability to
work long hours, sleep less and maintain
high levels of focus while maintaining
peak fluid intelligence is at its peak.
Use it. The second thing is that you
have nothing to lose. And so the thing
is is people always fear being the new
the new entrant. But when you have
nothing to lose or you have nothing
going for you, it also means you have
nothing to lose. And that means that
every position on the board always has
an advantage because anybody who has
achieved this big thing that you have
was also once a 22-year-old who had
nothing going for them. And you're at
zero, right? You can't get worse than
this. You have unlimited shots on goal.
And so not taking the shot is like
saying, "Life, I don't want to scratch
off this lottery ticket, but the lottery
ticket's free. Why would you not scratch
it off and try it?" And so the first
advantage is you've got you've got
energy. Next advantage is you have
nothing to lose. Third is you also have
time and you have very low
responsibilities. And so you have not
only the ability to uh to put all of
your yourself into something, you also
have no circumstantial things that are
preventing you. Now, if someone is
listening to this and like, I'm 25 and
I've got a kid.
Cool.
And which thing do you want to
sacrifice? And I'm saying sacrifice your
kid, but I'm saying like you're going to
have some trades. Now, I take things to
the logical extreme and say, okay, well,
Basos has kids, Bill Gates has kids,
Warren Buffett has kids. This is just if
you wanted to be, you know, business
successful. It's like, okay, well then
that can't be a reason that I can't be
successful. And so whatever reasons that
we usually give ourselves in the
beginning for why we can't achieve
something, you can almost always find
not only just someone, but someone who's
achieved worldclass levels of success
with worse conditions than you currently
have, which then means it's absolutely
possible. And then the only thing that
it takes to get there is work. And so um
I I I just wanted to be very clear that
if you are, you know, if you're 22 years
old, like the world does not hate you.
You're just not good at anything yet. I
I felt
so jilted by the world as a young
business person because we were stepping
into these meetings with 40 and
50year-old nightclub leisure company
owners and me and my business partner
were 19 or 20 and we were saying, "Hey,
nice club. Shame no one's in
it." And we can put people in. Uh, and
the fact that someone twice our age or
three times our age was sat opposite the
table from us and didn't give me respect
made me it made me really
uh discouraged. So I'm like I'm you need
me. You need f people. I have people.
Why can you not see this? Why can you
not see the value in what it is that I
do?
And it feels like
a personal curse, some sort of cosmic
judgment that's just bestowed on you.
Oh, it's because of my failing. It's
because they are being mean to me.
Another 20-year-old business person who
would have went in there, they would
have been given the respect that they
deserve. It's like, no, if you're young,
everybody in business is going to be
skeptical of you. Now, this is changing
a little bit. I think uh the rise of the
wonder kid, the Elon Musk, Doge, Deen
world. I think maybe is leverage.
There's that uh kid that made the AI app
that takes photos of food and it does
calories and he's making like a million
dollars a month or something. He's 16,
17, 18. He just vibecoded his way to
like multi-millionaire status in his
teenage years. Okay, we're starting to
realize that ideas get unlocked through
technology and through youth and through
insight.
But there is still an industrial era
mindset, industrial revolution era
mindset which is this craft of sometime
of some type will take a lot of time for
you to get there. And uh by virtue of
that, people are skeptical of young guys
and young girls. And you're right. If
you're 22 and starting your own
business, the world doesn't hate you.
They're just skeptical of you. You know
what's interesting is um what you talked
about earlier about like the lowrisk
path. Like you look at all these things.
I think you become the exception by
being the rule. And so I'll unpack that,
but like
we we highlight the 16-year-old, right?
we don't nearly as much highlight the
30-year-old who's crushing it because
it's like well obviously he worked for a
decade and then he got there. It's like
but if you work for a decade and they
get you there you are exceptional. You
are already at the very ends of
achievement and you did it by following
the rule which is that it's just maybe
not unpredicted. Yes. It's not it's not
a surprise. And so I think people
conflate surprises with exceptional and
it is exceptional in that it's rare not
necessarily that it's the only kind of
rare. Correct. It's rare that it was a
lottery ticket more than and of course
and I want to be clear maybe he's 16 or
and like Mr. Beast is a perfect example
of this. He's 25 I think now. Something
like that. 256. I know we're getting
old. Um and so the thing is is that he
started I think making videos when he
was 12, right? And so it's like oh well
he's got 13 years in just one game
spending every hour of every day for
that 13 years doing it. And so some of
these kind of younger guys and I think
part of this is just proliferation of
information and access to information
has just gotten, you know, bountiful for
everyone. And with AI, it's been easier
for people with fewer resources that to
to start actual things, right? The cost
of entry financially is significantly
lower. And the cost the access to
information is basically almost zero.
And so when you combine those things, if
you're 14 years old, you have high fluid
intelligence. Like your brain's working.
So, if you're like if you're on the
younger side, like there's there is no
rule that says that an app designed by a
14-year-old is in some way or anyway
valued less by a customer than an app
that's developed by a
40-year-old. There's no rule. And so I
will also push back on one thing, which
is if you continue to feel like people
don't take you
seriously, if you continue to feel like
people don't take you seriously because
of your
age, it might be not because of your
age. It might be because you suck. And I
think that is a significantly harder and
pro and more probable pill that you'll
have to swallow. Well, especially given
that self assessment and reflection is
difficult to do when you're young. Your
own ability to understand where your
strengths and weaknesses lie. It's hard.
Full stop. Sure. It's really hard if
you're 20. Yeah. Right. Or 22. This is
from Mark Manson. I had this episode
with him this week. It was so good.
Before you win, everyone will ask why
you're working so hard. And after you
win, everyone will remind you how lucky
you got. Holy dude. You know
what's funny? I actually Okay, so I
didn't know that's where the where the
quote was going to go. I thought it was
going to go um before you win, everyone
asks you why you're working so hard.
After you win, everyone asks you why
you're working so hard.
That's I mean both of those work. Yeah.
And it's it's it's true. But I think in
that in both of those situations, both
of those things are true. um in both of
them before you win, everyone will ask
you why you're working so
hard. There's no proof that this is
going in the right direction. You don't
have any evidence that you're actually
even good at this thing. The likelihood
of a positive outcome is incredibly low.
And after you
win, have you not yet reached escape
velocity where you don't need to do this
anymore? Um why are you capitalizing on
an opportunity? Uh why are you
capitalizing on um conquest instead of
continuing to just start from
opportunity at the bottom? Like because
you've now reached the top of
the mountain, is enough enough? Uh or
dude, I mean, you know, just so precient
to start a business at that time. Like
you, you know, like you really timed the
market or uh I've been learning about um
it's not venting, but it's a I can't
 I can't remember what it's called.
It's this particular type of put down
that chicks give other chicks. And I I
don't think that guys have I frankly
don't think that guys have like the
lexical capacity to do this socially. Um
but it's something like uh imagine that
a bunch of girls are at a a wedding
together and there's one girl that
doesn't like another one and she'll say
something like, you know, I really
admire your confidence. Like I would
never wear a dress like that and it's
just like I'm you know it it looks you
know you just with your body type like
it's really impressive that you that you
decided to wear that today. like that's
just you know you've done you're com
you've done really well or you know huh
you you're prepared to like just eat
like I you know I I can't I can't just
like keep eating but it seems like you
just don't really mind and it's this
sort of odd venting come put down you
know are you trying to No I'm saying the
dress you know it's this sort of
culpable deniability of an insult and um
yeah I get the sense that the look
retrospective But conversation thing is
a little bit like that. It's a
backhanded insult, not a backhanded
compliment. There's a meme from Family
Guy that does this exact thing. It's two
girls eating lunch together just trading
insults like this. And then it just pans
to two guys uh eating lunch after like a
60-second exchange of just insults. And
he says, "Hey, John, I like your tie."
He says, "Oh, thanks." And it says,
"Men, we know how to be friends."
That's sick. I was just thinking about
that while you're saying it. Um, but
it's so it's so interesting like I have
I have that statement that I said at the
beginning, which is um you live your
life in a way that I would not prefer.
And all of these things boil down to
that. And I've had this as my my
internal translation mechanism because
uh before you before you win, they're
saying you live your life in a way that
I would not prefer. And then after you
win, in Mark's example, you have won in
a way that I did not prefer. And then if
you continue to work, you continue to
live your life in a way that I would not
prefer. And so at the end of the day,
they just cast their preferences on to
you. And then somehow they expect you to
give a And I think this is where
I've lost friends.
Um, and that's okay. And they're
entitled to think that you should care
and you're entitled to not care. The
problem here, especially again for me
and for the people who are the criticism
hyperresponders that are listening, if
you overindex or even if you just index
on other people's input, you think,
"Huh, maybe for a while you didn't have
as many
people
contributing to your life as you might
have wanted. And now as a porpa, how can
I reject this penny? Someone's flicked
me." What you don't realize is that this
penny could have arsenic on the other
side of it or it might be a fake penny
or it might be a joke or it might blow
up in your hand or something. You go,
"Huh, well, maybe maybe this person's
comment is like useful. Maybe I should
take heed of this. Maybe it's something
that I should I should listen to." And
the ability to be discerning when you're
not used to receiving feedback. Yeah. Is
a difficult skill. And again, the I can
just middle finger my way through life
not listening to anybody's opinion is an
interesting one, but practically it's
very difficult and it's a skill that you
need to learn. And you do need to learn.
You do need to listen to feedback. Like
if you had never changed how you did
your podcast from day one until now,
your podcast would not be what it is.
Right? If I had made sales
presentations, if I had written emails,
if I had made products that didn't
respond to feedback, then we would not
be where we're at right now. It's a
really it's a really interesting
question of like how do you discern
which feedback is good and which
feedback isn't. Y um and I'm trying to
think about what my my perspective is on
that. I think it comes down to number
one aligned incentives like does this
person benefit from me doing better.
Number two is competence. Are they do
they actually have sufficient domain
expertise where their uh feedback would
be relevant? Now, I'll be clear here. If
you have a yogurt company and you want
somebody to try your yogurt and your
friends say, "I don't think the yogurt
tastes good." Well, they probably had a
lot of yogurt and they've eaten stuff
before and so like they could very well
have domain expertise. If you uh have a
business that's a yogurt business and
then your mother gives her opinion about
how the business works and she's never
run a business, that's different, right?
And so so the second would be uh domain
expertise or competence. The first is uh
aligned incentives. Um and then what do
you think? I think that those are like
I'm trying to think of I honestly think
those two those two are because you can
start adding on but it just makes
it harder. And
the first one ensures that the person is
pointing in the same direction as you.
The second one ensures that they
actually know how to row a boat.
Yeah. Uh so yeah, I like that. I like
that. Success really just boils down to
this. You got to want it more than you
hate what it takes to get it. If you're
willing to suck at anything for 100 days
in a row, you can beat most people at
most things.
Okay. I'm so excited you said this.
So, we we we talked a little bit about
how well I'll rewind the clock. So,
there's this quote that I read from Kobe
where he said he thought that it was
going to be super competitive in the
NBA, but when he got into the NBA, he
realized that
people, well, they figured out that they
had made it and uh weren't willing to
sacrifice as much as he was to continue
to win. And I would say that that that
realization has been somewhat true for
me, which is that like
winning it's like it it hasn't gotten
harder from the actual doing stuff side.
There has been the trades that have been
different than I expected. Um but
especially when you're looking at, you
know, the population of everyone to a
100 days of doing something in a row. Uh
there was a there was a friend of mine
who had a he offered a guarantee on a
product that he sold and the guarantee
was this. He said all you have to do you
can get all your money back if you just
open up a Google doc and say what you're
going to do every day and at the end of
the day you're going to say what you
did. That's it. And you just do that for
six weeks. That's all you have to do.
And if you do that and you don't get the
the results, I'll you know I'll give
your money back. And what's crazy about
that is when he was talking about it, he
said, ' Do you know what the completion
rate of twice a day doing something is?
He's like, it's like less than 1%. He's
like, so I can happily do it because it
seems so simple. And so I think we we
we
underplay how simple success
is and extrapolate an expectation of how
easy it must be from that. And then
we're disappointed or dissatisfied when
it doesn't meet those expectations. Like
it is harder than we expect, but also
the rewards may be also greater than we
expect. James Clear has this
unbelievable insight. It doesn't make
sense to continue wanting something if
you're not willing to do what it takes
to get it. If you don't want to live the
lifestyle, then release yourself from
the desire. To crave the result, but not
the process is to guarantee
disappointment. Yeah. Holy
Super true.
I mean, um, I think Naval quoted this
blog a long time ago, but desire is a
contract you make with yourself to be
unhappy until you get what you want. And
if you never if you basically know that
you're never willing to put the work in
to get the thing. Yep. That's an iron
law. Like that James Clear thing is an
absolute iron law. If you don't want to
live the lifestyle, then release
yourself from the desire. There is a
path between where you are and the place
that you want to be. Mhm. if you're not
prepared to do that
walk, still wanting to reach the end of
the path is just guaranteeing that
you're going to live an unsatisfactory
life. And so when I hear that quote, I
immediately go to my operational side of
like, okay, how do I release myself from
a desire? So I thought about that and I
actually think it's a lot like dating.
So hear me out on this. So, there is the
old saying, I think it's a girl saying,
um, well, I'm going to assume it's a
girl saying, which is if you want to get
over somebody, get under somebody else.
All right? Now, there's a point to this,
which is,
I don't think you can release desire,
but you can replace it. And so, it's
like if you have a terrible breakup,
there's basically some totem of
reinforcement that's been removed from
your life.
getting over something or someone is
simply giving getting enough exposure to
enough new things from the time that
you've bought back from this reinforcer
being gone to find another reinforcer.
Which is why I genuinely think that the
idea of like, oh, I shouldn't date for a
while after I get out of a breakup is
just complete stupidity. Like why would
you like what why what rule is there?
Well, you have to heal.
Healing for most people is defined as I
find something else that brings me
sufficient joy that my baseline returns
to normal. But if I'm going to bring
somebody else into my life, that
person's also going to serve that same
function. And so like I could I can
replace it with tennis or gardening or
business or just the next person I'm
going to date. And why is one better
than the other? To clear's uh releasing
of desire, I think it's just choose to
want something
else. So if I were to say if I were to
give someone the direction release the
desire, I would say don't try and
release the desire. Try and justify or
reason why wanting something different
is better. Well, also maybe be a little
bit more open-minded about how that
desire could be fulfilled. It's like,
huh? And I, you know, to push back on
the why you should have a little bit of
a break between partners, I would say
that there is a specific type of
learning that comes, especially from
intense and emotional experiences that
takes a little bit of time for you to
embibe. And that if you very quickly
move into a new relationship, you're
trying
to find the direction that you're going
in while you're also rowing the
boat and trying to fix the holes from
the last one. I get the sense that there
are certain realizations that come about
by we're often very bad at taking
lessons from a thing while it's still
happening. And I wonder whether you very
quickly move into the I can't take
lessons from this thing mode because I'm
focused on the new thing as opposed to
let's sit down and debrief a little bit
after this. And what does life look
like? Perfect example of this. Alander
Bottom has a a beautiful insight where
he says uh people rarely
change often not in relationships and
never when you ask them to. It seems
that most people's changes in the way
that they show up in relationships occur
between them.
Now I would guess that a lot of this is
because change is very emotionally
painful and breakups are emotionally
painful. Therefore, people change when
they break up. It's like my world got
ripped out from underneath me. Mhm. But
I do wonder whether moving on very
quickly stops the reflective process
that allows sense making to occur by
immediately giving you new novel
stimulus that is
distracting. So I so I will I will
challenge back um which is one um it
assumes that we must change.
Um, if we take that if we take that
frame, which I wouldn't necessarily
accept in all cases. Um, number two, uh,
it assumes that the change that we're
going to make in between is something
that's going to increase the likelihood
that we find someone that we like, which
may or may not occur. Third, I do think
that change would happen no matter what
because you've you've removed somebody
who was altering your behavior. And
anyone who says that the person they
date doesn't alter their behavior, like,
I don't know what you're talking about.
Like, of course, they they give you
little kisses when you do stuff and they
say thank you. Of course it you have
reward cycles and punishment cycles that
exist constantly and so like oh she's
always different when she's in a
relationship. It's because they have
somebody else who's deliberately uh
changing their behavior and that's
normal and we do control and counter
control to our partners all the time.
People don't like using the word control
but it's exactly what you do if you want
your husband to pick up the socks then
you do you say thanks and you give them
a afterwards whatever like you
do some sort of rewarding contingency in
order to you know get more more of the
type of behavior you like. And also you
say hey don't say that when they say
something that you they said hey are you
going to finish your dinner and you're
like I used to have an eating disorder
and my friends used to say I wasn't
eating my food blah blah blah right and
so um with the relationship piece I
think that you're going to change when
you have reward or punishment stimulus
that changes and until those things
change nothing is going to change to
Ellen Debot Len's name that him um and
so if you get out of a relationship you
will change regardless because the
conditions have changed and so your
behavior will change and so and all of
these things I then posit as the
question is like and do I need to do
this in order to find the person that I
want. How many people have gotten into
relationships where they've changed the
things that they like to do? They've
started uh staying up late because their
partner stays up they started getting up
early because their partner gets up
early. Let's say just that cuz it's kind
of simple. And then they get out of this
relationship and they ask themselves the
question still going to bed late or
waking up early, right? because they've
habituated that type of behavior, right?
They ask themselves, "Well, huh, I kind
of forgot that I used to go to bed early
or stay sleep in. I forgot that bit of
me because for the last 12 months I've
been in this relationship with this
person and I adapted. We sort of met in
the middle or maybe they really changed
me or whatever it is." Well, is that the
way that I want to be? Is that the
actual change that I want to make
or do I want to go back to or do I want
to uh alchemize both of these things
together and and create this this new
world? I'm not convinced. In theory,
maybe. In practice, no. And in practice
for most
people, certainly no. It takes time for
this stuff to filter through. Yes.
Particular landmark events that you go
through that are very traumatic. I don't
even think it's landmark. I think you
can change behavior really quickly and
it's just not a huge thing. Like Leila
used to say in the very beginning of our
relationship, she said, "Haha, you're
stupid." She would make that joke and I
say, "Hey, I don't really like that."
And then she stopped. It's just a very
small thing. It wasn't like this
traumatic thing. I just said, "It's a
preference of mine if you don't say
that." And she said, "Okay." And then
that was it. Um, with regards to the the
staying up late thing, the contingency
of reinforcement that was the other part
partner who was there is gone. So now
the reason that they were doing it
before was that they didn't have this
reinforce reinforce introduced so
they're willing to change their behavior
to accommodate this later you know
timeline. We don't have transparency
with ourselves though you know I don't
know what that means. We do not
see all of the reasons for our behavior
and where they came from immediately.
Do we ever rarely but we will get more
with distance I think to go huh I'm no
longer receiving the stimulus. It's like
I tried to run on I tried to run on
Jupiter. Jupiter was really heavy. I
adapted my running style. Huh. I'm back
on Earth. I need Oh, this is going to
take a little bit of time for me to get
back into this new running style. So the
reason So I'm I'm I will continue to to
die on this because I I feel no I I like
what I'm describing has been the central
worldview that has been responsible for
a great deal of my material success. And
it's rapid behavior change. Rapid
behavior change but also being able to
accurately view the world. At least to
my I I think I I view it more clearly
than I did before. and my decision
quality has dramatically increased by
isolating variables that are dependent
that actually change behavior, change
outcome. And so when you said knowing
why, it's like a it's like a bingo red
flag for me. Not red flag, but just like
a, you know, pay attention thing because
when when we say, "Oh, I figured out
why."
In my opinion for the vast majority of
people when they figured out why it
means that I have crafted a narrative
that I accept which may or may not have
any bearing on reality and so I focus
purely on the observable because they
are far more predictable in terms of
predicting your own behavior and
predicting other people's behavior. And
so with regard to the relationship, it's
like people have many counter controls
that they do and so because of that you
change your behavior and then all of
those things are removed at once. Now
were there other things that are also
variables in your life that occur during
that period of time? Of course. Do we
know them all? No. And so I take the
position that there are so many
variables. Why do I need to know why?
And I never will anyways. And so why
would I waste my time trying to figure
out whether do you think you're this way
because your father didn't hug you
enough? I don't know. I know that I am
this way. Period. And might be 20
different things because we're going to
generalize work ethic to your dad didn't
hug you enough when it might be like I
write because I've had enough
reinforcing contingencies around writing
that I'd write and that's different than
what I'm willing to speak which is
different than when I do podcast which
is different than all these others. And
so when we get into the basically we
extrapolate out reasoning by analogy
works really well. When we get really
down to what are the behaviors that
changed when you were in the
relationship versus not in the
relationship and if you can get
isolating on that which you can be
specific about not necessarily why it
happened but that it changed and what
behaviors changed then you can look at
your laundry list of okay these are the
changes in my behavior that I have
continued to keep post relationship. Are
any of these uh conducive to me getting
a more attractive or better partner in
the future? Now, if the person that I
was with got me to go to the gym because
they went to the gym and then the gym
itself became reinforcing because uh
basically totems of reinforcement can
shift uh over time in terms of the work
itself can be reinforcing. I might say
this was a laundry. This is one of the
items that changed when I was in this
relationship and I am okay with it. And
so if we have that laundry list then
again why do I need
time? And so I anyways I I push back on
this very hard because me discovering
why I did something gives me zero value.
That's interesting.
I I would class myself as a uh
understanding why especially around
myself is one of the greatest sources of
pleasure that I've got in my life. Okay.
This be maybe where me and you differ.
Oh no. I'm gonna we're gonna jam
on this. I love this. Okay. So, I will
give you I think a perfect analogy for
this and the reason that I'm in general
uh somebody who's not the biggest fan of
therapy as is traditionally practiced.
If I were playing tennis, right, and I
went to a coach and they said,
"Hey, I need you to change your grip
from this to this straightforward."
Would I spend the vast majority of that
session with the coach being like,
"Let's try to discover why you hold the
grip that way.
Who cares? I
do. Now, when we get to
why I used the word control before, if
we can understand the dependent
variables, then it means basically if
you can predict, it means you can
control, which people don't like that.
But if you can predict what's going to
happen, it means that you know what the
variables are and you can influence
those variables, which you can influence
the outcome, which means you can control
the system. And so knowing why um from a
narrative perspective, I think again
You'll never know why. You will have a
narrative that you've accepted.
And so what? Because then what do I want
to do
next? I only want to ch like we have a
set of behaviors or skills that will
increase the likelihood of goal
achievement. Whatever that goal is,
being spiritual, being a good husband,
whatever it is, these behaviors will do
that. To increase the likelihood of me
doing these behaviors, then I have to
have more good stuff, less bad stuff. I
will I will die down that hill. Beyond
that, what does anything that happened
prior to this matter at all in so far as
it only works if I can use that same
variable? And then and then use it again
to change my behavior yet again to be
conducive to the goal. What if I love
this Yeah, I can tell. I can tell.
I can tell it's either the nicotine or
or the debate. Uh so what if the actual
outcome that you wanted was the pursuit
of trying to work out why? Because for
me, and tried to word that relatively
carefully, not finding out the actual
why, but the pursuit of trying to work
out why. Uh it's the reason that I fell
in love with evolutionary psychology
because to me it started to explain why
we are the way we are. It's one of the
common themes in this podcast over 900
and something episodes. It is a place
for people to come to try and get some
approximation of why they are the way
they are. And even if that's wrong,
yeah, even if it does not fully explain,
partly
explain, the process of that discovery
for me is fascinating. I have a a a
journal entry from a long time ago when
I was on mushrooms and I was it was post
post party or post whatever and I was
back at the house and I had some music
on and I was just thinking through ideas
like this and I could feel this game of
tennis occurring in my mind as I thought
a thing and then I asked why and then I
asked why and then I asked why and then
I asked why and it felt like this sort
of movement almost probably certainly
was default mode off and you know
hemispheres talking and all the rest of
And I wrote down not what I was thinking
about, but I wrote down the sentence. I
love the way that my mind works because
I like that conversation of tighter and
tighter spirals of sort of deeper and
deeper questions. And for me, I enjoy
the why such. It's something that in and
of itself brings me joy to try and work
out why we are the way we are or why I
am the way I am. I I wholeheartedly
accept that learning things is
enjoyable. And I think what you
described more or less was that the um I
I come purely from the perspective of
changing behavior and the why is super
important and not always knowable. And
so
I I push back on narrative so heavily
because in a way and like take this not
as a as a slight. I see a lot of that as
mental masturbation. I would agree.
And I do not decry that in any way. If
someone wants to do something with their
time, awesome. Play video games. Do
whatever you want. Mhm. If we want to
say this increases or decreases the
likelihood that we achieve a goal, then
that is where I will because that we can
know. Does this increase or decrease the
likely that we achieve a goal and the
difficulty with ascribing why is that we
cannot know because we cannot relive the
same circumstances again? And so in any
equals one situations, it has and I and
I say this as somebody that
um obsessed for a a long period of my
life. Um, and this is not to say that
now I'm better or different or anything
like that. Um, over the wise, but when I
the reason I have two two two three
statements on on on my wall, the good
day and those three. What does that
mean? How do you know that? And why does
it matter? And so if we say these are
the changes that occur in this
relationship. Okay, that's what it means
rather than like I'm stressed now or you
know what, she rubbed off on me because
she was really anal. What does that
mean? Okay, it just means that she
counted her calories and uh I now, you
know, when I go to a menu, I order like
a diva. Whatever, right? Like these are
the two behavior changes. When I say
anal, this is what I mean. Great. Okay.
How do you know that? Well, did I do
that two or three times or is this every
single time that I go out? And so, okay,
now I know the extent to which this
thing that I have now defined. And who
cares? Why does that matter? I'm anal
now. Well, anal just means I change the
way I order. Does that matter? No. Okay.
And so instead of trying to maybe I
maybe it was because I sought out
approval from her and other people
because I have this hole inside of me
and I I wanted to gain um some sort of
you know in-group outgroup. I wanted to
be accepted by her and her friends who
also do that. I think maybe that's what
who
cares. And so it was that
that's does me counting my calories and
being a diva when I order decrease the
likelihood that I find the next mate? If
the answer is yes, then I'll change the
behavior. If no, it. Interesting.
I'll be
uh the pursuit of the why to me improves
my well-being and the quality of my
well-being is a goal in and of itself.
So let's say that one of the few goals
that you have is to be in moment to
moment happiness or satisfaction or
something like that. For me, the pursuit
of the why is a source of that. So I'm
aware that that's like a lexical
jiu-jitsu move, but um I've thought
about this a lot and it's been one of
the most sort of common themes in the
show and uh it's even if it's pointless.
Yeah. kind of like uh like
skimming rocks or something that it only
occurs for a small moment and
accumulates nothing over time. Um I like
it. Yeah. So uh this is the second
half of that quote from above. The bar
for excellence has never been so low.
Most of your competition quits after the
first sign of difficulty because they've
never known what hard feels like. If
it's hard for you, it's hard for
everyone. And most people avoid hard
things. which is why you can beat most
people by just trying.
I think the vast majority of people
don't actually know what it looks like
to put tremendous effort into something.
And I think one of the most valuable
things that the office, which now you're
going to have, um, has given me is the
people who now work in my proximity, one
of the number one things that I get back
as feedback is like, I really didn't
understand how much he works. And like
he doesn't stop. And it's it's easy to
say these things and it's hard to act
because one of the difficulty especially
the vast majority of successful people
have one thing in common which is
they're consistent and consistency you
cannot see in a
snapshot. You can't see consistency in a
sound bite. You can't see consistency in
a real. And so consistency is one of
those things I think you talked about un
unlearnable lessons. I think they are
difficult to learn without large amounts
of exposure. And so those and I think
those are the types of lessons that
become unlearnable is that you need
large amounts of exposure in order to
encapsulate the lesson itself. You and
so
trying is one of
those like the act of trying. Yes. And
so I so uh Ila had a mentor of hers say
this uh to her and I've been and it's
it's lived rent free in my mind since
then. Um, so we had this thing that we
we had this house that we were pursuing
and the and and we we ended up not
getting the house or
whatever. The mentor first
said, "Are you settling or did you move
mountains?"
And it's just a great it's it was just a
great visual for me in terms of like did
you did you try or did you move the
 world to make it happen? And
when you think about like the extreme
versions of this which is maybe the
person that you care about most in the
world dies if you don't the amount of
options of action that open up is
dramatic. And I think people are so
constrained in their thinking of what
level of effort is because they haven't
considered what trading way more for
that thing is. But they would be they
would be willing to trade far more for
that thing if the trade were clear. But
because they've never tried hard at
anything, they just think, "Oh, this is
what trying looks like." Which might be
like the occasional Google search and a
couple hours a week of like watching
some videos on YouTube on something.
It's like that is not trying. Like that
is not trying. Like if you cannot count
the amount of repetitions that you're
having in the hundreds, that is not
trying. And like and and the the longer
I've been doing stuff,
um that's that's you know, yielded
material reward, the the greater my
history of delay on me getting what I
want with volume. And so it's like I
know that this thing like everything in
my life, volume negates luck. You know,
violence is the answer. Like these are
sayings that are plastered around the
wall of this office because they've been
so true for me that you can brute force
what you want into reality. And yes,
today you know we talked about trades
that we're not willing to make. But if
you want something
like did you move mountains?
Well, the trades that you're not willing
to make is you saying I don't want to
move that mountain. And I think and
that's and that's perfectly acceptable.
Yes. You might say, uh, I could do like
I, so I thought, so because she posed
that question, I thought about all these
other things that I could do. I was
like, well, I could offer an extra $20
million for the house. That would
probably get me the house. Okay. Am I
willing to do that? No. Okay, what else?
I was like, I could like I had I was
like completely deconstrained thinking.
I was like, could I pay somebody to
Yeah. Well, that that was a thought, but
I was going to say that one. um could I
um pay someone to, you know, we could
figure out I could have a private
investigator figure out when basically
tail them uh the other buyer who's
thinking about buying the home and uh
when they're visiting it have crime
occur next to them or near them or in
that vicinity to be like oh this is not
a safe area right like what and I was
like oh man I completely opened up my
now am I willing to do that no but it it
completely deconstrained my thinking
when I raise the bar of, okay, let's say
I would pay anything. And let's start at
this guarantees me success. Okay, I'm
not willing to I'm not willing to to pay
that. Okay, well this also pretty close
to guaranteeing me success. Am I willing
to pay that? No. Well, this one still
guarantees me. Oh, I'm willing to pay
that. And so it starts at goal
achievement and then works backwards on
price rather than starting with price.
You negotiate you negotiate the cost
with yourself backwards from the assumed
success which is why do so much volume
it would be unreasonable that you were
successful.
I think the bar being set incredibly low
is just a it's such a perennial
truth and there's sort of two things
happening at once here. One
is you can work way harder than you
think you can. Yes. And another one is
most people work so not hard that even a
small amount of working hard puts you
into a rarified strata of people. And
both of those things are true at the
same time. Right. Yeah. And I'll add a
third one. And the bigger the goal is,
the fewer the people who are pursuing it
just because they think it is a big goal
and therefore it must be harder to
achieve. That's the fairest thing about
most people try to achieve mediocre
goals which makes them the most competed
for and they assume that how difficult
it is to compete for that goal must
therefore extrapolate proportionally on
the consistency point. No one cheers you
for not drinking for a day, not smoking
on a long drive or not overeating for
one night. No single workout or meal is
ever impressive on its own. The reason
so few people understand success is
consistency never looks impressive in
the moment only at the end. the point
that you were making before around
um you don't get to see the process. You
don't get to see what trying looks like,
right? Trying is opaque. Outcomes are
obvious. What you have done is you have
made what was previously process into an
observable outcome at least a little
bit. Fact, Alex spends a lot of time in
his office. Let's say I mean I assume
that he's working. I already knew the
output of work that he was getting out
of him. But now I've actually seen the
process that he goes through in order to
be able to get that. And unless you are
moment by moment turning your process
into some kind of an outcome, live
streaming it, tracking it, journaling
publicly or privately or whatever, uh,
no one ever actually gets to see the
inputs, only the outcomes. And no one
knows that's real impressive. Maybe it
came easily to him. Yeah. Maybe he's
able to crack it out in half an hour.
Maybe he's got a team of people that do
it on his behalf. Maybe he, maybe he,
maybe, maybe. And
yeah, you can try way harder than you
think you can. And most people aren't
trying at
all. I'll give a tactical thing that has
helped for trying. And like this is
actually one of those more rocky cuts
scene type things. But when you work,
and you actually are working, you're
writing the emails that you need to
write, you're you're you're preparing
for the podcast, you're doing that that
work that you know is not short work.
It's this is going to take me 2 hours.
This is going to take me 4 hours. When
you get to the end of that and you're
like, man, I'm kicked. You know, I'm
this, you know, I I earned my shower
today. I think the difference is that at
that point, you go, you grab a bottle of
water and then you look at your to-do
list at the next large thing and say,
"Great, let's start on this." And I
think people who don't witness that
happen, they don't see 4 hours. And this
is what working side by side someone can
do. I remember when I we just have we
have a new uh director of marketing uh
in his first week uh we needed to we
needed to write some massive amount of
stuff and um he was like okay so we have
to do this and I was like great pull up
a document let's go and he was like oh
like now and I was like you got
something else to do and he was like oh
I mean I I no okay yeah let's let's do
it now and then we shared screen for
eight hours uh and then we finished it
and he was like oh wow I was like great
what's the next thing and he was
Oh yeah. Uh we we have this other thing
I guess we can do too. And it was and I
could see his like perception on on the
level of work shifting in real time. And
so if you have the opportunity to work
with anyone that is exceptional at
anything, especially in that sub30
crowd, for the love of God, move across
the
country, live in a tiny apartment, live
far below your means, work for free if
you have to because the skill that you
will get from learning the unlearnable
or the difficult to learn lessons cuz I
it is pathier to say unlearning, but
like it's harder to learn these lessons
if If you can get in proximity, you will
learn so much so much faster. Like if
you want to time warp yourself, you can
try and observe the little bits and
nuggets and crumbs from videos,
podcasts, things like this. Cuz all
we're doing is trying to describe
scenarios. But when you live them, it
completely changes you forever. Like if
you want to win, Angela Duckworth talked
about this. The number one most
consistent way to become a champion is
join a team of champions.
Have I given you my 2D lessons, 3D
lessons thing? No, but I Very cool. So,
uh, Bill Perkins wrote a book called Die
with Zero. Great book. Great book.
Three-hour lesson. Everyone should go
and get it. You'll be far less motivated
afterwards. Keep going. Yes, that's
true. But he's fun and he is an
important redress to people that
struggle to spend money uh and struggle
to have fun. So, Bill Perkins writes
this book, Die with Zero. I bring him on
the podcast. The book is about how to
use your money in a manner that gives
you a life that you will enjoy at any
level of wealth.
That's a 2D lesson. Even speaking to him
on the podcast was largely a 2D lesson.
We finish up the podcast and he says,
"What are you doing now?" And I said,
"Well, I was going to go home and write
the show notes for this." Cuz it was me,
an editor, and a Mormon assistant in a
Facebook Messenger chat. That was our
business at at this stage. And he said,
"Well, do you want to go wake surfing?
Can you wake surf?" It's like, "Yeah, I
can wake surf." When do you want to go
wake surfing? Like when now? Uh, yeah.
Okay. I I mean, we've just been on a
podcast for 2 hours, 3 hours. It's the
middle of the afternoon. So, okay, no
worries. We go downstairs. His driver's
outside waiting for us. We get into the
car. We get to Austin 360 bridge. His
boat captain is there on the boat with
shorts for both of us and towels and
food and snacks and and uh
caffeine. And immediately we're wakeing
within 30 minutes of having finished the
podcast. And I was like, 3D lesson, 2D
lesson, reading the book, 3D lesson,
going to Bill's house and seeing his
staff. Like, huh, this guy puts his
money where his mouth is. And the
difference for exactly what you're
talking about, 2D lesson, 3D lesson,
the value of narrative.
Yeah, there are two types of people.
Those who want to know more and those
who want to defend what they already
know. M so many people are afraid of
changing their mind when most of their
beliefs aren't even theirs to begin
with.
Man, I got some good quotes. That first
one's Morgan Hustle, so you can go
yourself. Yeah. Um No, cuz I like it.
It's interesting that we said that cuz I
was like, man, I was like, I don't
even remember that That's why.
Yeah. Uh there's
a a idea called the second half is Yeah,
I did write. Yeah. Yeah. Uh do you know
what the dead internet theory is? No. Uh
over time so much content on the
internet is going to be created by AI
and bots that nothing is going to be
left that's userenerated. Essentially
it's going to be a rounding error of
that. It's dead internet theory.
I get the sense that the people who are
concerned about dead internet theory
should have been concerned a long time
ago given that most people are
propagating ideas that they didn't even
come up with and can't explain. It's
like you're worried about mindless
robotic creatures producing things on
the internet that you might have to
read. Have you seen what most people put
on the internet and ask them about where
they got that idea from? So yeah, I
think the dead internet theories already
occurred. It's just it's as Naval says,
people failing the touring test in
reverse.
People failing the touring test in
reverse. So they behave like
robots.
H the second half of the quote was what?
So many people are afraid of changing
their mind when most of their beliefs
aren't even theirs to begin with.
So there's this this quote by Marcus
Aurelius that I have I wrote I wrote on
the the executive. How much wall
space have you got? It's all whiteboard.
Yeah, there's a lot.
Um, and it was uh, what are you so
afraid of losing when nothing in this
world belongs to you? And I read that
and I was like, that's good. And
so like there's also things, but there's
also beliefs. Like what are we so afraid
of? Because every belief that we have
like we got it like we come as a blank
slate right now. You could say, you
know, I combined three things and made
it my own. You know, I think you've
you've you've read enough quotes in this
world that like most interesting things
have already been said.
Um, but the ability to change your mind,
um, like if you can't if you can't
explain why you believe what you
believe, um, then it isn't your belief.
It is someone else's. And what's weird
about that is that people are willing to
defend someone else's belief, but
they're not willing to accept someone
else's belief. It's just that it's just
one step removed. I'm talking to you and
it's your belief. And I'm defending
another person's belief, but it's mine
right now, but it's not mine. Mhm. And
I, you know, strong beliefs loosely held
is I think a saying in the Y cominator
world. Um like before I get this like
big trigger effect of like h says that I
am wrong and therefore he is calling me
stupid and I'm inadequate and I will die
because I will you like and you
extrapolate it to everything. Um I think
the quick check of like why do like what
if he's right? And I think that's a
great perspective. I remember having my
own mind changed on something like this.
I had to do a debate um when I was in
high school for affirmative action and
so I was a very pro- affirmative action
guy uh going into that debate. I had to
argue the opposite perspective for the
debate. That's cool. And by uh and that
was I think I think it was one of the
requirements that teachers everyone had
to say what side they were on and they
just flipped it. Um which was amazing
teaching by the way. Yeah, it's really
cool. Um and at the end of the whole
thing I was like I was wrong. I actually
think this hurts people more than it
helps people. And like I had all these I
had all this reasoning behind it. Um and
I I'll tell you a completely different
scenario of this in terms of questioning
our beliefs. So in in the gym world,
which is where I came from, um I
remember a period of time where I saw
people work out and I would I would
judge them and I'd be like, "That guy's
form is bad or he's doing too much
volume or he's not he's not, you know,
squeezing in the right way, whatever."
And then I learned more and then learned
that that, you know, thing that I was
seeing some guy do actually was more
effective and my thing was not as
effective. And then a few years passed
and then I learned that the original
thing that I said was actually the thing
that mattered. And then I learned even
more and it was like, oh, so all of
these things have different rates of
progress based on uh quote efficacy, but
all of us eventually cap out at our
genetic max. And so all we're really
debating, all we're really debating here
is how quickly we reach our genetic max.
And if I enjoy training, wouldn't I
rather have longer progress over an
extended period of time? So then which
one is better? Huh? And so it's just
like and and basically having myself and
luckily for me at least um each of those
times where I quote learned that I was
wrong it was in silence and I after like
the third or fourth time of this where
it got flipped again and again I was
like you know maybe I should back off a
little bit. Just be humble. Yeah. Like
I'm just going to exercise the way I
like to. And kind of like the pursuit of
why for you like I I like training this
way. I can't really explain it too well.
It just seems to give me joy. Yeah.
Right. Yep. Yeah. Uh there's this idea
from Gwindogen. Can I add something to
this which is I saw this uh this yacht
and it had the because every yacht names
are always like wild, right? And it said
um don't analyze your pleasures.
What's that mean to you?
He used the word analyze, but I think
judge is the right is the word that he
that he that he I'm assuming it was he
cuz this thing makes you feel good.
Yeah.
Don't don't question it. Don't worry
about it. Just let it be. Yeah. That's
really cool. That is really really cool.
Like don't
sec it's like the suffer like only
suffer once like don't judge this thing
went well sure I mean just enjoy it
enjoy it. Uh Gwinder Bogle's got this
idea two-step flow theory. Most people's
opinions are copied from their favorite
influencers who in turn copy the
opinions of their favorite mass media.
As such politics is largely a battle
between two armies of puppets being
ventriloquised by a handful of actual
thinkers. And that's the you defend uh
an opinion. So many people are afraid of
changing their mind when most of their
beliefs aren't even theirs to begin
with. And there's people who want to
know more and those who want to defend
what they already believe. Oh, so
interesting because it was kind of like
this is like kind of like the Mark
Manson quote. I thought it was going to
go in a different direction. So I So
based on that premise, my expected
outcome was um these people copy the
behaviors of their favorite influencers
and the influencers are using the most
tested thing that the masses have said
is the highest performing version of
those. Oh, okay. So it's like a
means-ested outcome. It's like, oh, the
best rose to the top and then
everybody's copying that. Well, I mean,
maybe, but I think that the point here
is that original thinking is very rare.
Yeah. and that you have it's maybe one
of the reasons why you get conceptual
inertia and stuff takes a very long time
to change even after a heliocentric
version of the universe is you
know turned around you have a long time
for humans to catch up and I wonder
whether this plays back into the breakup
thing like there's just this
conceptual inertia sometimes thought
patterns for someone who has trained it
perhaps be able to change like that. But
 me when you start to scale that
across an entire society and media and
legislation and government and
expectation and religion
and what what is it? Uh a lumbering
behemoth that sort of drags its feet. We
end up with
that thinking is hard which is why the
vast majority of people delegate
it. And I and what's really interesting
and I think you had George Mack and this
is his whole thing with high agency. Y
like you can you can be exceptional by
just actually trying to come up with
your own opinions like and and starting
with what do we what are the few things
we know which is you know reasoning from
first principles which people say over
and over again but don't know what
reasoning from first principles is to
begin with which is we start with the
facts the things that we are obser in
the observable universe and we only go
from there and we build on that and if
we if we arrive at our current thing
then I will also agree with it if I
don't arrive at the current thing then
I'll arrive at somewhere else and then
I'll have reasoning to believe that
thing. And the thing is is that if you
do reason from first principles, it does
give you the ability to sustain the
course for an extended period of time
because your logic is sound. And so you
can look at everyone and there's one of
my favorite memes. I have like my two
favorite memes of all time. Um, and one
of them is there's this one dude and
they've probably seen it with in front
of like a zillion little heads that are
going the other way and he says, "Yes,
you're all wrong." And I I love that
meme because to me it's like that meme
is agency. It's like I know I don't know
why you all believe what you believe,
but I know why I believe what I believe.
And until I have observable evidence
that somehow contradicts my the stack
that has built this
belief, this is what I'm going with. The
problem is that this takes time to do
that research, to do that thinking and
and and come to it. Whereas and as much
as we can uh you know uh throw shade at
people who delegate decision-m we all do
because you can't actually derive you
don't have enough time to first yeah you
don't have enough time. So we have to
just be more purposeful about what are
what are the beliefs that I'm actually
like what hills will I die on? So I will
die on my hill of of of behavior change
because that is what I've spent a huge
amount of my time you know thinking
about. Um, but if if if it's around food
stuff, I'm like, I don't know. Like, and
I was in the and I was in the business
for for 13 years. Like, I was in the
business for a long time. Um, you know,
around fitness and nutrition and things
like that. But even then, it's like I
you know what, this guy's Dr. Mike's
smart and I believe that he spent his
time looking at all this stuff. So, I'm
just going to delegate thinking to him.
Incentives are aligned. Yeah. If he
doesn't get people leaner or more
muscular, then his business falls apart.
pretty expertise.
Yeah. Uh the fastest growth periods are
often the most miserable. If you want
progress, get used to pain. The worst
thing that's ever happened to you is the
worst thing that's ever happened to you.
The hardest you've ever worked is the
hardest you've ever worked. Every new
challenge shows you a new territory you
were scared of but survived. Every time
you break a new limit, you now know you
have the capacity to handle more than
you ever did before. It's inverse PTSD,
like workload exposure therapy, that
teaches you, "Oh, I've been here before
and I didn't die. This is okay."
So, one of my training partners, what he
likes me to tell him when he's in a hard
set is, "You're
fine." That's what he likes me to tell
him. So, he's he's right at those money
sets where you're like, "I'm dying right
now." And you're like, "You're fine. Not
keep going. You got this. It's and a lot
of people like that. He's like, "You're
fine. You're
fine." And I think that that's probably
what he tells himself when he's going
through those harder times because I um
so when I was back in in in the
fraternity days, um I was in the SEC,
which is, you know, the South. Um and
they were notorious for like heavy
hazing. And so I was going to join as a
pledge. And so I called my dad up and I
was like, "Hey, you know, I don't know
what's going to happen." Blah blah blah.
And he said, he said this to me, which
actually was one of the strongest things
that was my frame going into it because
of what he said. He said, he said, there
is nothing that they can do to you that
you have not already had worse
happen. And it was this great like, huh,
they can't do anything worse than what
I've already had happen. And so going
into all of these, it was this very
comical like, oh my god, I was like,
this is so much not as bad as this other
stuff I've had to go through. And I
think that um to to your point of like
you have only worked as hard as you've
ever worked. Um the the frame of I can
stand it because I am not dead. I am
living proof every day that I have stood
withtood everything that I have been
through which I think almost all of us
could probably give ourselves a little
bit more credit. Um and the day that you
can't stand it anymore you won't have
to. What would you have said if they
could have done something worse to you
than what had already happened to Am I
dead? Guess what? I have a new bar that
I know that I can't stand. Yeah. Yeah.
More evidence. That's the new territory
that you go through. It's a that sort of
safety thing, I think, of you're okay.
This is fine. Yeah. You're fine. Yep.
It's a It's a a lovely bit of
reassurance. And I wonder whether a lot
of that comes down to control. just this
sense
that even if this is a new territory
like your capacity to cope with it still
exists and that in that there is a kind
of there is a kind of control that you
have or maybe it's not a direct control
but it's certainly a
uh not a sense of lack of control right
or not a sense of lack of outcome
I'm trying to unpack what you said.
When you reassure somebody that they're
fine Mhm.
what it tells them is even if this is
something which is novel or outside the
bounds of your current model, it's
something that you can handle. Mhm. I
think that's where we're trying to get
to. You have evidence that you have. So,
this would be we will generalize your
history to this novel situation and it
also applies. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Yes. You've been through breakups
before. You'll get through this one.
Mhm. Even if this one's worse. Mhm. Even
if this one's worse. And maybe it's got
nothing to do with the breakup. Maybe it
was to do with the way that you handled
that change in career. Maybe it's not
even to do with any one thing. Maybe
it's the fact that you've handled all of
your life put together up to right now
is 50% of the suffering that you're
going to get and the other 50% is going
to come from this one
thing. Or maybe it's you've this is 99%
of the suffering is coming from this one
thing. But in the 1% that you've had so
far, that is the only evidence that
you've got. I reckon that you still got
this. There's this uh idea, I might have
told you this before, but uh a friend of
mine told me about a time that he went
through uh a really rough period sort of
public scrutiny and and and lots of bad
things happening to him. And he said,
"All my life, I was scared that I was a
coward."
I was terrified that I was a coward,
that I didn't have bravery. And I think
of myself as a hard man. I hang around
with hard men. I do hard men things.
I'd tested myself, but I'd only ever
really tested
myself under my own valition and in my
own control.
And one
day
I thought,
huh, the world's going to test me in a
manner that I didn't get to choose, and
it's going to test me at a velocity that
I wasn't prepared for. He used this
sentence I adore. He said, "I
could always hear my better self
clearing his throat in the room next
door." Could always hear my better self
clearing his throat in the room next
door. And then his wall came crashing
down. It's like, and I wondered whether
or not that guy next door was going to
stop coughing and kick the door
in. And sure enough, he
did. And it's this lovely explanation of
the difference between chosen and
unchosen suffering. Mhm. It was one of
the criticisms I had that everybody made
around CrossFit. Uh that you know
training so hard you know the Ryan
Fisher like world of this like dude you
made yourself pass out from a
heat stroke in a
competition but even though that is
unbelievably extreme and really really
impressive. Let's make no bones about
it. You chose to be there. You chose to
do that pursuit.
What if I said you need to lie on the
couch for 3 weeks and not train? How
hard would that be? That's the
difference between chosen and unchosen
suffering. And the weird thing is that
you can't choose unchosen suffering.
It's very difficult unless you throw
yourself into kind of chaos, you know,
like flicking yourself like
throwing yourself off a cliff is like,
well, I don't know how this is going to
go.
Uh, so yeah, the clearing my throat
clearing his throat in the room next
door is a wonderful visual. I
have two thoughts on this. So number one
is
that one of the strongest reframes for
for suffering is that it gives you the
opportunity to create evidence of the
person who you want to be. And so it's
like I cannot say that I'm the type of
man who can withstand hard things
without having gone through hard things.
And so this hard thing that has occurred
that was not of my choice can still be
something that serves me and my ultimate
goal to become the type of man who can
do these things. And so reframing
suffering as opportunity to create more
proof I think is really really strong
because we are ultimately just the
behaviors that we do. But we also
ascribe our narratives to why we do
those things which um may or may not be
true but we do ascribe those narratives.
And so being able to say like this is
going to be an amazing story was one of
the things that got me through the
earlier parts of the gym days when there
wasn't any evidence and I could say hey
this was many years of my life because
if it had happened overnight how
unrelatable would that story be and the
reason that we don't tell stories of the
the prince who just goes up to the girl
and she says yes and they lived happily
ever after is a very terrible story. And
so I think at the end of our lives, we
would much rather have the the twists
and the turns and the the depths of
character and the and then the triumph
and then the and then and like this is
is a story that's far more interesting
than this. Dude, I had Jeffrey Kenberg
on the show the other day. Do you know
who that is? Guy that founded DreamWorks
with Stephen Spielberg. Oh, cool. The
dude that did Lion King. Oh, amazing.
And uh like every big Disney
movie. He's a legend. And uh I asked
him, "What did you learn about
storytelling?" He says, "Story is only
as good as it villains." Oh, yeah. I
mean, the Joker in in Dark Knight, I
mean, it's just like he made the movie.
And another way to put that would be the
story is only as good as it stakes.
Yeah. The bigger the monster, the more
epic the hero. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Find a woman who kills drama instead of
starting it, makes life quieter, not
louder, tells you you're better than
these guys, you can beat them, and wants
you to win even more than you do. then
become the man required to attract that
woman and marry her the moment you find
her.
Yeah, that was just a tweet about my
life.
Um when I was debating uh whether I
should marry Leila, I had a mentor who I
reached out to and I was like, "Hey,
what do you think?" Um, and I was
actually like just not sure. I just
honestly came in with like open hands
here. I was like, I don't know. Um,
because my relationship with Ila was
different than any other relationship
that I had been in before. And he said,
look at your
stats. And this is probably the most
hormosian of of of of love story
decisions. But he was like, "Your
business is up. You're eating better.
You're working out. you are less
stressed than you were. And she has done
all of these things to create the space
for you to do that. And when I
translated into like what has changed
about my life rather than, you know, do
I feel the chemical compound of whatever
um it actually made it a much easier
decision for me to say, you know what,
this makes sense, which was, by the way,
my proposal to Laya. I think it would
make sense if we got married was my
actual um which wasn't a question. It
was a statement. She was like, "Is that
a proposal?" And I was like, "Well, are
you saying yes?" And she was like,
"Yeah." And I was like, "Okay, then we
need to get you a ring." And that was
that was that was our proposal. There
was there was there Yeah. So that's
Heros's romance. But anyways, um I think
that I think a lot of people chase chase
the um the the fireworks rather than the
the the coal the coal furnace that takes
a long time to to heat up, but then it
just it keeps it keeps going and it can
power for a much longer time during good
times and bad times. Because if it makes
sense, if it makes sense without
emotion, then it will make sense when
the emotions are gone.
Yeah, that's an interesting assessment
of the way that the human attachment
system works that basically you have
sanity,
insanity, sanity again.
Uh, and you should, everybody should see
themselves as potential future drug
addicts that are playing around with
maybe one of the most powerful
substances on the planet. The only issue
is that it's endogenously created inside
of you as opposed to exogenously given
to you by a guy in a
BMW. That's what falling in love is.
Falling in love is choosing to deal
yourself drugs for between 6 and 24
months. Yeah.
During that time, you cannot trust your
own decision-m. So, you need to make as
rational of a decision up front
in the belief that that will be where
you end up on the other side of this
window. For the terminology, it's the
passionate versus the companionate
attachment system. It's because
serotonin gets dropped in the brain
because you're just dopamine,
epinephrine, norepinephrine.
drive, drive, drive, and then you don't
sleep, you don't eat, you're like, "Oh
my god, she's amazing." He like come out
of it 24 months later, you're like,
"What the was that?" And if you're
not careful, you know, in a
relationship, in a house with a
golden retriever and maybe a ring and
maybe a kid with a person who you don't
really like all that much and made your
stats go down. Do you ever hear the uh
diary entry that Charles Darwin wrote
when he was unsure about whether or not
to get married? Yes. But please, but you
could recap it. sick. The
document has so Darwin's unsure about
whether or not he should get married, so
he makes a list. The document has two
columns, one labeled marry, one labeled
not marry. And above them, circled are
the words this is the question. On the
promarriage side of the equation were
children if it pleased God, constant
companion and friend in old age who will
feel interested in one object to be
beloved and played with. After
reflection of an unknown length, he
modified the foregoing sentence with
better than a dog.
Anyhow, he continued, "Home and someone
to take care of house, charms of music
and female chitchat. These things good
for one's health, but terrible loss of
time." Without warning, Darwin had, from
the promarriage column, swerved
uncontrollably into major anti-marriage
factors, so major that he underlined it.
This issue, the infringement of marriage
on his time, especially his work time,
was addressed at greater length in the
appropriate not marry column. Not
marrying, he wrote, would preserve
freedom to go where one likes, choice of
society and little of it. Conservation,
conversation of clever men at clubs, not
forced to visit relatives and bend in
every trifle. To have the expense and
anxiety of children perhaps quarreling,
loss of time, cannot read in the
evening, fatness and idleness, anxiety
and responsibility, less money for
bucks, and if many children forced to
gain one's bread, even experts in mating
and evolution struggle with big
decisions. sick. The line that I
remember from that most vividly was
money for
books. It was just such just such a like
and less money for books. Yeah, that
will be in there. I want to do another
one. I don't mean to just read that
exists. Have you ever read Richard
Fineman's love letter to his wife? Uh,
no. I read the pleasure of finding
things out. Okay. But I love Fineman.
Love I mean, you can see a lot of
influence. I might I might not be able
to say this without crying, which is
going to be very embarrassing, but I'm
going to try.
October 17th,
1946. Darlene, I adore you, sweetheart.
I know how much you like to hear it, but
I don't only write it because you like
it. I write it because it makes me warm
all over inside to write you. It is such
a terribly long time since I last wrote
to you, almost 2 years. But I know
you'll excuse me because you understand
how I am stubborn and realistic, and I
thought there was no sense to writing.
But now I know, my darling wife, that it
is right to do what I have delayed in
doing, and that I have done so much in
the past. I want to tell you I love you.
I want to love you. I will always love
you. I find it hard to understand in my
mind what it means to love you after you
are
dead. But I still want to comfort and
take care of you. And I want you to love
me and care for me. I want to have
problems to discuss with you. I want to
do little projects with you. I never
thought until now that we can do that.
What should we do? We started to learn
to make clothes together or learn
Chinese or get a movie projector. Can't
I do something
now?
No. I am alone without you. And you were
the idea woman and general instigator of
all our wild adventures. When you were
sick, you worried because you could not
give me something that you wanted to and
thought I needed. You needn't have
worried. Just as I told you then, there
was no real need because I loved you in
so many ways, so much. And now it is
clearly even more true. You can give me
nothing. Yet I love you so that you
stand in my way of loving anyone else.
But I want you to stand there. You dead
are so much better than anyone else
alive.
I know you will assure me that I am
foolish and that you want me to have
full happiness and don't want to be in
my way. I'll bet you are surprised that
I don't even have a girlfriend except
you, sweetheart, after 2 years. But you
can't help it, darling. Nor can I. I
don't understand it for I have met many
girls and very nice ones, and I don't
want to remain alone. But in two or
three meetings, they all seem
ashes. You only are left to me. You are
real. My darling wife, I do adore you. I
love my wife. My wife is
dead. Tough.
to play the reverse out. It's like,
would I want Leila to write that
letter? And I don't think I
would
unless she was happy writing that
letter.
But if the removal of me as a
contingency of reinforcement for her um
meant that
she couldn't find that in somebody else
um would sadden me and so I've already
so like with lay life I've told her I
tell her a lot um I was like I'm going
to die before you statistically there's
I'm for sure going to die before you
she's a little younger she's younger and
I'm biggerale and she exercised like
she's for sure going to live longer. And
I was like, I want you to spend as
little time as humanly possible from the
time that I die to finding somebody
else. Um, you do me no service by making
yourself miserable. And you do not
discredit or dishonor me by finding
somebody else to spend your life with.
So, yeah, just I I only think about that
from reverse. There's
a the joy of melancholy. Yeah. is an
interesting kind of emotion that's kind
you know this strange think wallowing
satisfaction in wistfulness um and yeah
wallowing wallowing is maybe a little a
little more loaded
um but melancholy I you know there can
be odd joy and sadness and and a kind of
beauty that you get to experience after
something is gone that you can't
experience during it. I've not had
anybody in my life die. Only child with
a mother and a father that's still
alive. Like I've got there's no one must
be nice. Yeah.
Um but there's not been many things that
I've lost. And this is me Monday
morning quarterbacking. Uh I don't know.
But maybe
what's a mood
setter? Modern women see Ila and think,
"I'll wait to establish myself in my
career before I date or get married or
have kids." But they forget we got
married when she was 23 and we built
this together. Love is one of the rare
times you don't do life in order, but
rather all at once.
If you find someone that makes your
world go round and makes the world make
sense to you, where you both look at the
same thing and say, "Oh, you saw that,
too?" Like, I feel like I was the only
one. I think that for high achieving
individuals, finding someone who sees
the world the same way is incredibly
rare. And when you find that
person, you should stop what you're
doing and then you should get them to
stay with you. And it's been, you know,
one of the best decisions of my entire
life, marrying Ila.
And
there's there's this, especially
unfortunately for women right now,
there's this huge, you know, put it off
delay. There's no rush. But it doesn't
actually take into um consideration two
things. One is that biology hasn't
advanced with culture and society. You
can't have kids past, you know, 35. I
mean, you can, but you're a geriatric,
you know, it's a ger geriatric pregnancy
past 35. Ruthless time. Yeah. I'm just
being real, right? Yeah. Um, and so I
mean I I this is like super prevalent
and I know this is a much more common
theme on the show and I don't touch it
very much, but it's it just I just say
it more like because it I think it
sucks. Um, it's not fair. It's not Yeah,
it's like objectively it's not fair.
Guys can wait the you know their whole
lives. They can do everything. Um, and
you have to, if you go to college,
graduate college at 21 or 22. And if you
want to have four kids, assuming that
you have perfect pregnancies and you
have exactly one year, you know, 18
months between each one, okay, that's
six years by the time you're done. And
so if we if we rule out geriatric that
geriatric pregnancy is our last, then it
means that we have to basically have or
we you have to have your first kid at
29. Well, okay, maybe it'll take, let's
just tack one year on of marriage to
have the kid and be married. Okay, 28
you're married. All right, do you want
to marry somebody within 6 months of
meeting them? Let's give it two years to
give our logical, you know, brain in.
Okay, so
26. 26, you graduate at 22, you have 48
months. And I think that again, this is
if you have if you don't want kids, then
all of this is null. If you do, then you
have a very small window um to piece
that together. Now, of course, there's
surrogates and maybe in the future, you
know, like I I'll say in general betting
on I'll smoke I'll smoke cigarettes now
because by the time I'm old they'll have
a cure for it. Um I don't know. I just I
don't make those bets. And so it's
easier to work with reality the way it
is, not the way you hope it's going to
end up landing. Yeah. to to knowingly
incur basically a guaranteed price for
the potential of maybe a non-existent
solution is probably not the best
decision-making process. And to be
clear, I say this, Ila and I, you know,
we don't have kids. She's not 35. Um,
but I think
that we have these unrealistic
expectations that someone is going to
make our lives, that they're going to
complete us in some way. when I think
that for me the the the best thing that
a partner can do is help you be the best
version of yourself and that may mean
that you also have other friends who who
fulfill other needs for you. I remember
a mentor of mine uh you know he had had
a wife that well most people have wives
that are not involved in their business.
I'm more the exception there. Um but his
wife wasn't involved at all in the
business and they had a very happy
marriage. Uh, and he said, um, and I
said, ' Do you ever like wish you could
talk shop with, you know, your wife? And
he said, God, no. And I was like, uh,
why not? He said, that's what I got you
for. And it was just such a business. It
was just a such a flippant like
off-handed answer that I was like, there
was actually a lot of wisdom in that.
He's like, I don't need I don't need her
to do that. He's like, I need her to do
this. And he's like, and I've got you
and you and Kevin to do these things
with. And he's like, and when I want to
do like church stuff, I go to these
people. And so um and I think a lot of
that is because we've become
increasingly remote. People live
together in close quarters for extended
period of time. And so it's like our
exposure, our surface area with one
another has gone so far up compared to
how the vast majority of kind of uh
relationships were call even 50 years
ago. Like you didn't spend nearly as
much time with your spouse. And so it
was more normal to have different people
or different parts of your life that
were or needs being fulfilled by many
people and only the ones that are
confined by the laws of marriage being
delivered on that. Now if you get
somebody who can who can takeick two of
those boxes or three of those boxes
amazing. But I think the idea cuz I tend
to reject the idea of soulmate and I
think that people have this fallacy of
the perfect pick. like I have to pick
this person perfectly when there's also
the Buddhist perspective which you and I
have both you know spoken length off off
camera about which is like suffering is
going to be a constant and this person
will
like we get to choose how we want this
to go and so I think that if you take
off the societal pressure of a perfect
partner and think does this person make
me
Will this person hold me back from my
goals? Um, if the answer to this that is
they will make me better, they will make
it more likely that I I do the things
that I want to do and we have no what I
would consider non-negotiables. I want
to have kids, they don't want to have
kids, I want to travel, they never want
to travel. If those things are good, I
think part of the excitement of life is
is learning how to be married.
There's a cool idea Louise Perry taught
me about uh which is how people buy a
lamp. So, okay, if you were to move into
a house completely unfernished, finding
the right lamp is super easy. Get any
lamp and the house will fit around it.
But if you've spent a decade and a half
constructing the perfect house and all
of the upholstery is chosen and the arts
on the wall, there's this sort of sage
uh uh effevescent uh candle over the far
sides. Even the smell. Trying to find a
lamp that fits that perfectly cured
house is really difficult. And it's a
price
that we don't like to talk about. I say
this as somebody who's unmarried at 37,
right? And has constructed a pretty
 elaborate, complex life. Um,
it's significantly more difficult to
find a lamp that fits into a house that
you've designed for a long time than it
is to build a house around a lamp. And
assuming that you want a lamp in your
house, getting the order at least
somewhat right may make it easier. Now,
there are lots of great things
about the fact that your house is more
big and complex and you've had fun in
building it and all the rest of the
stuff, but it is a cost that we don't
talk about, which
is how much more difficult is it? What
are some of the irreversible doors that
you have of just being older and more
ingrained in your habits? And this is
the theory versus practice tension again
of well, you know, if I find the right
person, I can, you know, we can it'll
and you go, "Yeah, dude, but your mind
is not that of 21 or 25 or 30 is that of
35 or 40." And it's going to be harder
for you to feel as satisfied with your
choice. It's a difference between
satisficing and maximizing. And the
problem is even if you're looking for
satisficing, you start to that bar
begins to raise. Yeah. Exactly.
And how do you know that you're not
kidding yourself into selling that
short? We've seen I was at uh Zach
Zach's wedding a couple of months ago,
and this is such a universal
truth of every wedding that I've ever
been to, as soon as the ceremony is
finished, all of the eyes of the older
people turn onto the single people in
the crowd. And they're like
blocked on like this, and they're coming
over. Anybody that's not married
the Christopher when are we going to see
you know when are we going to be you
know you can't you must not forever yeah
exactly and uh
it's vicious it's like a
heat-seeking missile from all of the
older people that are there and uh
Zach's mom had a lot to drink and was
being super loud and came out with an
absolute slammer of an insight
where she was you know so when do you
think and so on and stuff so I I can't
wait to be Dad, I can't wait to have a
family. I can't wait to do the thing. I
feel like I've spent a lot of my life
looking after me and I'm starting to get
sick of myself and I'm looking forward
to looking after somebody else.
And she said, uh, that's all well and
good. Make sure that you love you fall
in love with the girl, not with the
institution.
And you see this with women because they
have tighter timelines again. Yeah. that
as the nightclub lights are about to
come on, the standards have to
increasingly slip.
And it's not entirely the same for men.
But look, most relationships that are an
age gap of 2 yearsish. I think the
average is 1.5 years older in the guy's
direction. You can play around with this
all that you want, but it's going to
become increasingly difficult if you're
talking like over 10 years. Like, okay,
like how much are you going to have in
common? Very different life stages. You
can get a particularly youthful older
person or you can get a particularly
mature younger person. But come on, like
it's going to be it's going to be
another uh challenge for you guys to get
past. And uh yeah, make sure that you
fall in love with the girl, not with the
institution. to reverse engineer this
situation out of somebody that isn't
right for it. Uh I think is a a good
insight.
I think there's a distinct advantage to
be clear, not that everyone needs this,
but if you are a younger guy, the fear
that you have is that you're not going
to have the resources to attract, you
know, a super eligible bachelorette, but
I think that
there's really
deep bonding that occurs in going
through hardship together. Like when,
and this isn't me saying my way is
better, I promise. Like hopefully the
end point of this whole podcast is like
Alex clearly has no idea. Um but Leila's
23, I was 26 and she saw me lose
everything twice and that was before we
got married. And so I felt very
confident that she liked me for me. And
I think that one of the what people
don't talk about is the the flip side of
this, like playing it out, right? Let's
play it out a couple steps. is let's say
you do have the the nice place, you have
the big bank account, you have whatever
income stream, all the the societal
W's. You're not sure if she loves you or
the institution of you. Yeah.
And is there a way to know? I don't
know. Well, you can stress test it, but
it's a high-risisk
purposefully bankrupt myself to see if
this woman loves me. Yeah. Um, and so I,
uh, without being 1950s nostalgic
because we weren't there and it was
probably not as good as people think it
is now. Um,
find the person who allows you to be the
most version of you. And I think that
that really comes down to it. And the
most version of you, um, I think is the
highest potential version of you. The
person who can lubricate the gap between
who you are and who you want to be. Um,
you know, I've said this before, but the
person you marry marries two people. The
person you are and the person you want
to become. Just make sure they love both
of those people because they're going to
be the one who's either going to prevent
that from happening or be the one who's
a rocket pack for you. Like what's
really interesting is that there was a
uh there was like a super red pill
podcast that reached out to Ila um and
wanted to interview her and she turned
down the the request but the in the
invite it said you and Alex seem to have
like the only like relationship where
it's like modern relationship but it
seems like it's working cuz they're
super you know tad conserved whatever
and you know Ila responded um you know
we had a conversation basically about
the invite um she she didn't do
But, um, I think what a lot of people
don't see publicly is that like Leila
and I actually have an incredibly
traditional relationship. And in some
ways, I just feel like Ila is the most
extreme wife you could possibly find,
which is that she just said, "I will
support my husband in every possible way
to help him achieve what he wants,
including becoming his business
partner."
Yes. Yes. And that's what people don't
get. Like, Ila has done everything for
me. And that's the part that people
can't see. And like sure, she'll get
girl boss and like whatever you know
that world wants to, but like we have a
very traditional relationship and Ila is
also a very strong woman. And I think
that for the very strong women that are
out there, this will probably be, you
know, chopped in a million pieces and
put all over the internet, but I think
you just need an even stronger man. And
so unfortunately with like the
pussification of society, especially
men, um the and the and the flip side of
like the more girl boss etc is that it's
making it harder for those very
confident, strong, achieving women to
find men that they will let be men. And
the real real is that the guy that you
will end up with, he will not accept you
quote letting him be a man. He will be a
man and then you will fall into that
world. M you will fit within it. And I
know that that will probably you know
rub some people the wrong way but that
is my worldview. Um and Ila shares this
worldview and this is again not as
public on cuz you can't do it in
Instagram sound bites. Um but Ila's life
has been one of absolute service and she
just did everything she could to
help me and she still does to this day
to the point of pushing herself into
health issues to to to help us win. And
I think the sooner that you can get an
ally that you can absolutely trust, we
think about competence and we think
about incentives, right? A wife is
ideally like recommendation to the
younger guys, find a competent wife. Um
the incentives take care of themselves
once you get married. And I will say
that
contrary to to popular, you know, pop
culture, getting married makes you more
money. So, as much as Darwin said, "This
will cost me money. I will have less
money for
books, getting married will make you
more money." And I'll say, even at the
most basic level, because you're not
spending a third of your mental effort
chasing tail, you get a third the admin,
the sheer admin of dating in the modern
world. It's true though. Yep. Um and and
you go you go from from a third of your
time chasing tail with always trying to
gauge people's intent and you know
intentions and all this stuff to getting
all of that back plus another 3/3 of
somebody else provided you're aligned on
where you want to go. And like I would
not be here without Ila not just because
uh she's been instrumental in everything
that we've done business-wise but she
above all else created space. She
allowed and and she was the first person
in my life who just
who who just wanted me to be me and like
even in the times when I would like I
was at I was at a wedding and I was
about to post something and Ila was with
me and I was like ah this is a little
bit edgy. I was like I don't want to
piss people off and she just looked at
me and she was like never dilute
yourself. And it's like somebody who
wants you to be the most concentrated
potent unshackled unconstrained version
of you.
She puts up with the fact that I wear
the exact same thing every single day. I
eat the same lunch every single day, the
same breakfast every single day. I talk
about only one topic, which is business.
And I do that unrelentingly and forever
for every single conversation. And she
has dealt with all of these things.
Um, and the the perspective that I have
on this is that like after the two years
of all the the serotonin hyperdump or
norepinephrine and dopamine that you get
from the love drug, um, what you'll have
left is you and them. And if you do not
fit into their idea of what they wanted
you to be, then that is going to be a
tough ride. And so I think the baseline
is I accept you for who you are and I
also accept the person they want to
become and I'm going to do everything in
my power to help you get there. And
ideally both of us becoming that person
is aligned with the same
actions. I had this insight from George
Mac's birthday last year in Miami. I
haven't met George and I feel like he
lives he lives in Austin now. So, come
through. Um, I know you never travel, so
that's a a a hollow offer that I never
actually need to cash in on. A friend
was recently asked who his best friend
is. He said he wasn't sure. It's a bit
of a rare question after age 12. So, the
question was asked differently. Who do
you have the least amount of filter with
when you're around them? Another good
question is, who can you sit in silence
with and not have to fill it? Mhm. Even
if there isn't a single person that
wins, these are the people who you
should prioritize spending your time
with. We all feel the compulsion to
change ourselves to fit in. We adjust
our behavior, words, nature, everything
in attempt to be liked, validated, and
accepted. The more people who make it
feel safe for you to truly be yourself
around them, the more confidence you'll
have to be that person every day. And I
feel like that's a coralate to the you
partner should be someone that helps you
become more of you, not dilute.
They should be
salt to bring out the flavor. Yeah.
Obviously, he salt. Yeah. analogies have
limits, but like salt more of you. And
so you brought up authentic authenticity
as I define it from a behavior
perspective is how you behave if you
have no if you have no risk of
punishment. Mhm. And so what would you
do if you could not get
punished? And if you behave that way in
front of them, then it means that either
they do not punish you or they have no
desire to punish you. Either way, it
accomplishes the same thing, which is
that you behave as though they weren't
there. M
how to get a top tier goal. Oh god, did
I say this? Is this mine? Yes. Yes, it
I'm sorry. It is. How to get a top tier
goal? Number one, get in shape. Yeah.
Number two, get rich. Number three,
don't be a dick. Pretty good
advice. So, the second one. So, get in
shape. Uh, I highly recommend like the
first thing you like strongly strongly
strong recommend for young guys like for
the love of God get in shape. Uh, it's
it'll never be easier. You'll never have
more time. I had one of my sales guys
who I said, "Dude, I don't see you at
the gym." And he said, "You know, I'm
just really busy." And I just like
looked at him and I was like, "You will
never have more time and less
responsibility than you do now." So, I
kind of used the James Clear thing. I
said, "Hey, if you can't make it work
now, accept that you're never going to
be in shape for the rest of your life."
He was like, "Whoa." I was like, "Think
about it. Rid yourself of the design."
Yeah. I was like, "You're just never
going to be in shape." He was like,
"Well, I mean, I was like, right. So, do
it or don't, but stop wanting it." And
so, uh, back to that point. So, I think
that getting in shape just dramatically
enhances the the people that you can
that you can hang out with. Like, and I
I have this belief from humans in
general. All humans at ideal body weight
and like normal levels of musculature
are almost all attractive. Like at like
a one or zero binary scale of attractive
like almost all humans are just purely
physically. And so like just don't have
that be a constraint for you. Like don't
have it be a negative at the very least.
Right. Yeah. I've got this limitation
and that limitation and another
limitation. It's like
okay you're just adding another Yeah. I
think I think Peterson said something
like uh they say they're depressed. And
he's like, well, you're living in your
mom's basement and you're unemployed.
It's like you didn't give yourself a
chance. Now, if you're in shape, you're
rich, you do all these, you're you've
achieved whatever you've achieved.
Doesn't have to be rich, but you've
achieved whatever you want to achieve.
If you're still depressed, then we can
talk about it. But until then, you
haven't even given yourself a shot. I
can't find girls. Well, are you any of
these basic things? No. Well, then do
that first. The rich thing is more I
mean, obviously for me,
um I think uh Professor G. Galloway um
said this, it's it's more about the
signal that you have the ability to gain
resources more than having them. And so
like if you think about trust fund kid
now there is the element of having money
which does for sure there are girls who
just want the money but if you compare
that to the young hungry guy I don't
know if they win in a headto head right
and so it's the same reason that the
starving artist sleeping on his friend's
couch but who's got lots of upside
potential is attractive. Yeah. It's like
but he has one guitar and a pair
of boots to his name. Like, how is that?
Well, yeah, but so did Dylan. Look at
look at the predictors that I'm seeing
here. Look at the early onset
alarm warnings of something potentially
great in this future. Yeah. So, uh, get
in shape. Signal that you are ambitious
and that you plan on pursuing whatever
it is that you're going after. And then
finally, it's just don't be a jerk.
Like, I'm not saying you have to be
like, you know, the world's sweetest
whatever, but just don't be a dick. If
you do those three things, like you'll
be able to get whatever whatever girls
you want. What does don't be a dick
consist of? Great question. So, it would
probably be the behaviors that
um so that is a bucketed term for many
behaviors underneath of it. Um that
basically would just decrease the
likelihood that a girl would want to
continue to fraternize with
you. Uh but like you know specifically
like and I think that'll also depend on
the girl to be real. Um so girls might
prefer this. So whatever your target
girl is, she probably has a bucket of
behaviors. Now that's different than do
what she wants. Very different. It's is
there something that is non- negative to
me that is beneficial to her. Do as many
of those things as you can. Mhm. Mhm.
It's interesting as well
that it probably means you need to
ensure that the kind of girl that you
want to be with Mhm. and the kind of
behavior that you want to have around
her will often align because those two
things might not. You might want to be a
really distant I'm just going to work on
myself kind of guy but you might want a
very forthcoming, very caring sort of
woman and you have really reduced down
your mating pool if those two things
don't tend to correlate and I'm going to
guess that they don't. If you want a
really forthcoming, very caring woman,
I'm going to guess that she's going to
kind of expect that sort of interaction
in reverse. And if you're not prepared
to give that, it's like rid yourself of
the desire or you're going to have to
change your preferences or you're going
to have to change your behavior. One of
the two. Worth bringing up early if you
are on this like, you know, I would like
to find somebody train. This is
something that worked exceptionally
well. Um, which is I and I think our
first or second date, I just said
upfront all the non-negotiables that I
had. Um, which to be fair, this isn't
the like red flags whatever thing. It's
just like I work a lot. I will not
sacrifice that. If that is a problem,
then this will not work and that is
okay. I just want to be upfront that
these are these are the thing like I
work out. I will do that. I'm not going
to give that up. I will not give that up
for anyone. Um, and so like just stating
those things and I would say like
because people have this like they want
to put on a show, right? They peacock.
they they have to do the mating dance
and I have to, you know, present myself
in a way that's different than I
currently am. But I would say over time,
the less you can make the discrepancy
between how you're quote acting or
performing and who you are at baseline
for that person, the better it's going
to be long term because they're going to
find out eventually. And so they might
as well find out upfront and then you
can just say triage. I've said this a
bunch of times, but I went through a
breakup at the start of last year was
three and a half year relationship and I
was like, "Okay, I'm back in the dating
world." very different world, very
different person, very different
environment, so on. Uh, and I did the
sort of intellectual equivalent of a
 test, which was early on I would
start sending them psychology today
articles and weird Substack posts and
stuff just to see, huh, are we going to
have at some point when we next catch
up? Are we going to have a discussion
about this? Because this is the sort of
thing that's interesting to me. And I
don't see this going away, at least for
a little while. I imagine the next
decade of my life and maybe for the rest
of my life I'm going to be reading stuff
and learning about human nature and I
think it's important to me to be able to
talk about this with my
person. This is really
good. So what you just said reminded me
of
um a speech that uh Horowitz gave Ben
Horowitz and he talked about not
pursuing your passion um as a career
choice. And one of the main arguments
that he makes is that your passions will
change. He said the things when you're
you were really passionate when you're
20 are be the things that you're
passionate when you're 40.
And to to link that to something that
Jeff Basos talks about which is when
they asked um hey you know what do you
think the future of Amazon is going to
look like? He said people always want to
know what is going to change. He said I
think it's far more valuable to think
what is not going to change. And I think
that if you're trying to find a mate,
you really want to find the fewest
common denominators. Like what things
will not change about me over a long
period of time. If you happen to be in a
stint that you're really into fencing or
whatever, that may change. And I think
that's where like in some ways it lowers
the bar for the quote perfect match
because trying to find the perfect match
today versus that same match 50 years
from now virtually impossible. And so if
we accept that many of the things that
are surface level today are going to
disappear on a on a longer time horizon,
then there's only going to be the few
things that actually matter, which are
going to be what are what are the
behaviors under duress, right? What are
the core things about myself and my
behavior set that uh I find it unlikely
that will change over a long time
horizon. What are the things that are
predictive of the things that end up
manifesting? Like what is it that
underpins this? What are the
foundations? And so I think that if you
can and it's probably just a handful of
big rocks rather than hundreds of
pebbles. And so when when girls have the
and guys too, right, have the big list
of like the hundred things that I I can
never have, it's like you probably
should have three that you
must and then kind of ignore the rest
because that's that's the that's the
game. People who obsess about work life
balance are typically mediocre at both.
Obsessed people apply their obsession to
everything and just call it life.
I stand by my statement.
I mean, have you met anybody who's
like, maybe it's genetic, you know, the
finding the dent in the can and the like
um I mean the first thing that Leila and
I did when we got married is that we
went through a divorce course cuz we're
like, well shoot, inversion, right?
We're like, well, let's just find out
all the reasons that people get divorced
and let's handle all of those things
now. And so we did that as the first
thing. What are the reasons? Money is a
big one. Kids are a big one. Um and then
a lot of it is actually really tactical
preferences. So like when I come home
from a long day of work, do I want you
to then unload all of your days, you
know, woes on me? Probably not, right?
And so for me specifically, and it's
being um I mean a lot of it comes down
to communication, assuming that you guys
liked each other at some point, right?
Um and that and rounding up. I call it
running up, which is like if I said
something and there's two ways of taking
it, a bad way and a good way. I meant
the good way. We're married. I love you.
And so having that be kind of the
default setting. And like Ila has
learned a lot of my nuances, which I
actually only got to learn with her
because the thing is is that we're going
to have, you know, novel experiences
that then become routine. So, you know,
when we work together, there was no me
coming home at the end of a long day,
but we I mean, we work in the same
company now, but we don't like work
together during the day. And so very
often she's at home and I get back
and she learned because I to just give
me space. Like I usually just want to be
left alone for a minute to basically let
the dust settle in my head so that I can
be, you know, fully present for her. Um,
but I could see somebody who didn't know
that assuming that if I don't want to
talk to you when you get back, you don't
love me. Y is a problem. And so it's
really just dissecting these issues and
saying instead of saying like you hate
me or extrapolating this to our
relationship forever and always just as
a preference in behavior and obviously
Leila subscribes to the same uh
perspective on behavior that I do which
has made our relationship so much easier
to navigate without the landmines cuz
she'll just say what would you prefer I
do instead and I say can you do this
instead of that and she says sure and
that's it. like recently. So, this
actually this is super super recent. We
went out and had dinner and she said,
"Thank you for dinner." Cuz I paid, you
know, I paid a restaurant and I was
like, it like really hit me and I was
like, I haven't had someone like no
one's basically no one thanks me for
buying cuz I'm the assumed default
guy who pays for But on top of
that, Leila and I work together. We make
this money together. So, it's almost
weird that she would thank me for paying
for dinner. So it's not like impolite or
weird that she done it. Yeah. It's our
money, right? But I was like that meant
a lot to me. Means a lot to me, too.
Yeah. And so what she what she's
realized is when she if she says I'm
proud of you, you're you know, you're
awesome. You that was great. Whatever.
That means a little bit. Um but for the
most part, I'm like, well, I have a
whole bunch of things that I could have
made better and you just didn't see it.
And like here's, you know, I'm thinking
about all that stuff, right? But like it
means something, but it doesn't mean the
most. But when she said thank you, I was
like, "Please do this more." Like, and
so in like this is this is this week. So
this is like very fresh top of mind for
me. Like I came home yesterday after the
two mega days that I was talking about
the beginning of this. Um and she said,
"Thank you for working so hard." And I
was like in and it was just a tiny shift
in terms of verbiage. Instead of saying
like, "I'm so proud of you." And she
said, "Thank you for it allowed me to
feel like I was actually serving us by
doing what we do." And it basically gave
a huge reinforcer on top of my already
large existing reinforcers for working.
Um, but it's like I'm I'm like a I'm
like an appreciation camel. Like I don't
need a lot and it can carry me for a
long time. Um, but she was like and she
said the thing that she said at the very
beginning of our relationship. She said
I'm coachable
and and I told you that your your stupid
thing. The one superpower that Leila's
had uh in our relationship, which I
think everybody, you know, could could
use, is that the number of times that I
have to repeat feedback is zero.
She is the most responsive person to
feedback. And maybe it's hyper hyper
criticism responder, what you know,
whatever it is, but she will immediately
change behavior permanently. And it's
been one of those, you know, I mean,
when we were dating, there was a period
of time where I said, "I don't think
this is going to work." And she was
like, "Why?" I was like, "You're too
cold." And then like the next day, she
was like, "Okay, what does warm look
like?" And I was like, "Well, if you do
these things," she was like, "Okay, I'll
do that." And so, um, and you know, some
people might hear this, doing something
that makes your mate happy without
incurring a cost on you. Bingo. If it
means if it makes no difference. Now, if
it does incur a cost, have the
conversation. Okay. Well, this is a
trade-off here. And there was a period
of time uh she made all of my meals uh
for a very long period of time and then
like in 2019 uh she came to me and she
was like stressed out of her mind. She's
like I can run this company or I can
make you eat all of my
meals. No, seriously. She was just like
and she just said tell me which one
you'd prefer. And she was like terrified
to have this conversation with me
because she was afraid that I would I I
say you have to be this and this. And I
was like oh no it's a way rarer skill to
do what you can do in the business. I
was like we can just find someone to
cook the food. And she was like, "Oh." I
was like, "It's great." I was like, "But
this is like this means way more to me."
And so just having that like, "Hey, I'll
do it. Just I also just like if you had
an employee, not to say that they're the
same thing, but like you can't just say
keep doing more and more things." At
some point there's a priority that has
to happen. I have to do this instead of
that. And so what things are you willing
to trade? And then us being able to
openly talk about behavior the way that
we do has made this way less emotionally
charged because the sense of self that
it's attached to. It's interesting with
that. I wonder I think a lot of people
will feel like it's some sort of denial
of who they truly are when this happens.
I remember when I first started working
with a speech coach. Uh I got a
addiction coach. I figured that if I was
going to talk for a living, it would be
good to speak to somebody that was an
expert at doing that. And oh, addiction.
I thought
addiction. Yeah. Addiction coach. Okay.
Uh, and a bunch of my friends said, "Uh,
well, you are you worried about losing
the way that you speak? You know, you've
got a you've got a way that you speak
and well, you know, it's going to change
who you are." And I didn't really
understand until probably only this year
about why they were
uncertain or had a bit of push back
against it. And it's
because the way that you speak is seen
by many people and maybe rightly so as
attached to who you are your your not
only your sense of yeah it's your sense
of self right it's a very sort of
transparent so many thoughts hole down
to that and the analogy that I used was
well let's say that I started learning
to play the
saxophone and I said I'm going to get a
teacher to teach me how to play the
saxophone and your response to me was,
"Well, what about your natural saxophone
playing ability?" I'm
like, "I'm trying to be a better boxer
and I get a boxing trainer." They go,
"Yeah, but what about the way that you
naturally throw jabs?" Like, okay, if we
assume that there are better and worse
ways to do it, then yes, there might be
some unique quirks that you have which
if they were eroded away would lose a
specific competitive advantage with
this. But the things that we
attribute as very closely attached to
our sense of self and the things that we
don't I think are really interesting.
And the way that we speak would be one
of those. But if somebody starts to
expand that to everything that they do,
wow, I mean this relationship is not
going to work if you don't like the way
that I open doors. You like that my door
opening is that's a unique part of me.
You're denying the person that I am by
doing this. Okay. you know, this is
really important to me. My door opening
ability is really important to me. You
go that and I wonder what uh
the size of territory that somebody is
or is not prepared to adjust. I wonder
what that is, you know, at me. I have
Yeah. I know I have so I think you wrote
a longer blog piece I want to say a
month or two ago about how
um do people love me for the things that
I do or do they love me for the person
that I am and then the followup is do I
love me for the things I do versus who
you know who I am and I think I texted
you afterwards which is what is the
difference
and I mean that now people get all the
woo world gets really upset but when I
but if you say if I said who is John the
first thing that you would do to
describe who John is is talk about what
John does. And so I think that the whole
being is XYZ thing just confuses a lot
of people. And so our identity in you
know Alex's worldview is just the
amalgamation or the or the aggregation
of all of the behaviors that we do just
put together. It's all the stuff we do.
We are like he is a
carpenter. Chris has a podcast. He does
podcasting. Like that's it's part of
quote who you are. But like it's just
what you do. And so to to hold a
specific action that you have on a
pedestal, you make it mean something.
But fundamentally, it's just a behavior.
And so I think that if we see ourselves
as just this list of a thousand
behaviors, then we get to ask the
question, does me changing this behavior
and going through the effort of doing
that mean more to me than this
relationship? And if the answer is no,
well then then change it. And especially
if it's at virtually no cost to you and
a significant benefit to them. And I
think that trade is when you when you
see yourself as I am just a person who
does these things then there's way less
emotional rigidity uh with change
because you're like oh well I'm happy to
trade this for that. No big deal.
Especially given that the thing that
you're doing now in terms of a behavior
might mean a little to you but not that
much. And your pleasure in doing
something that makes your partner really
really happy could be infinite.
Yeah. Uh, this is related to one of
yours that I didn't do earlier on. Lazy
people don't know how to start. Weak
people don't know how to finish.
Successful people don't know how to
stop. People demand success but refuse
to work weekends. People want
opportunity but won't talk to strangers.
People claim ambition but sleep in every
day. We are the result of our actions,
not our aspirations.
I think once you've actually learned how
to
try really try one thing for an extended
period of time every single day and
taken all of your discretionary effort
and your money and your time and your
resources and put it towards just doing
that
thing. Number one, you realize how few
things you can really do well because of
the amount of time that it takes. Mhm.
The second thing is you realize how easy
it is to beat everyone else because of
how few of them actually do that.
And
that learning how to try becomes a
generalizable skill across domains.
So when you do learn how to play the
saxophone and if you want to pick up
tennis, you think about how many
sessions you did to fix your fix your
fingers and you know play play a more
advanced and a more advanced thing over
and over again. And then when you when
you realize that the domains are similar
in terms of skill um achievement uh
you're like oh this is the same thing.
And then when you go like, "Oh, I need
to make content now." It's like, "Oh,
it's the same as hitting 500 forehands
and 500 backhands and I make 500 tweets
and 400 posts and if I do it for an
extended period of time and I take the
feedback and I don't stop, I'll probably
beat most people." You also get to see
uh if I am focused on playing the
saxophone and becoming the best
saxophone player that I can be, but I
also want to be kind of good at tennis.
The better that I get at playing the
saxophone, the more repetitions it takes
for me to become even one increment
better. And in order for me to become
even remotely in the same
universe in tennis, how long's that
going to take? And I need to work
really, really hard. It's like when you
play a computer game, right? You're
playing some RPG and the first
few levels it's just noob games all the
way. you're level leveling up
every time you turn it on and then
people are grinding and grinding and
grinding to get from level 94 to 95 to
96. You go, well, all of the gains acrew
to the people at the top. And if you've
invested all of this time into this
thing, you are getting per unit of
effort way more back than you ever were
in the beginning. Yeah. The difference
is that you no longer feel the progress
quite so much. So we have this odd issue
that willpower at the end can sometimes
Wayne but the returns are at their
highest and the progress per unit of
time put in is at its lowest and the
inverse happens when we start something.
And this is why when people get to the
top of a thing plus motivation, which is
maybe just like a a tiredness with the
pursuit of a thing and a desire for
novelty generally, which is maybe a
little bit of of different, but this is
why people get to a thing and
then like this thing's tangential to
that. Maybe I'm going to start, you
know, I've been learning to play the
saxophone for a long time. I learned to
DJ. DJing is kind of the same. Just go,
"Yeah, but you're you're starting again
at this thing in the beginning." I maybe
it can augment in a different way, you
know, is it as close as I know lots
about training, so I'm going to learn
about diet. Or is it I know lots about
lifting weight, so I'm going to learn
about playing tennis. And some things
augment and enrich, and other things
detract and take away.
I think the better you get at one
thing, at least for
me, the less it's made me want to do
other things because I know what's going
to take to do them to this same level.
And then I think, well, if let's say I'm
a nine out of 10 at saxophone and I
would like to be a nine out of 10 at
tennis, I know how much work it would
take to be a nine out of 10 at tennis.
And then I just wonder to myself, if I
took all of that and put it right back
in the nine out of 10 that I'm at
saxophone, would I go from being top 100
in the world to number one in the world?
And then how different would my life be
if I was a 9 out of 10 saxophone player
to a 9 out of 10 tennis player versus a
10 out of 10 sax player? And which life
would I prefer? And I have tended to be
a maximizer in my whole life. And so
like I'm probably pretty my die is
relatively cast in this perspective in
terms of like I'll be doing business for
the rest of my life. Uh it's the only
game that I really enjoy that I spend
all my time on. Um but I recently have
had a really strong consideration that
you and I talked about um which is I was
I've been really strongly considering
devoting myself to um taking meditation
as a practice seriously. And the reason
for that is because the literature on
basically the standard deviation
improvement in subjective well-being,
basically how happy people are of um
Buddhist monks who have meditated for
like 40,000 plus hours is like three to
four standard dev deviations above the
the norm. Like monstrous. So to put
context here, one standard deviation
would take you from like 50% to like
84%. In terms of like general
population, if you're two standard
deviations, you're at 99.
That's two, three and four. And so
what's interesting is that like a year
of meditation gets you that first that
first chunk at an hour a day. Uh I was
looking at four hours a day, but um I'm
aggressive. And so but the thing is is
that in looking at this, it was
basically like it in order to to to
replicate those outcomes, it takes about
four hours a day. Now, if you do an hour
a day for a decade, you're going to get
probably one, maybe one and a half,
depending on who you are, whatever. And
so I being a maxer was like, well, okay,
let's start with spending $20 million on
the house. Like, okay, if I if I spent
all of my time that's available to doing
this thing, would it be worth it? And
the the thing that was that's been
troubling me is that the answer is yes.
And so, this is something that I've been
it's like I I know what it looks like
for me to go work really hard at
something and I've just been like I've
been teetering at the edge of this being
like, okay, am I really going to do
this? And so, everyone's getting this as
a snapshot of where I'm currently at
right now. um thinking through this
because
um the single greatest skill that you
can develop is being in a great mood in
the absence of things to be in a great
mood about. And seeing these guys
literally just take their median and
just move it all the way up. They get
the first arrow that hits them and they
just completely avoid all the other
second arrows and then it vanishes in
the moment.
And the uh description of what three to
four standard deviations ahead um of of
of subjective well-being is a constant
state of bliss.
Have you looked at Gary Weber's stuff?
He's one of the guys he's he's a
somebody who has uh become awakened,
enlightened, like permanent abiding
non-dual awareness. Oh, super cool type
thing. And uh that's and he he's that
way. His his description. I mean you you
know it's uh un stress testable in many
I guess put them in an fMRI but who
knows if this is because of the
meditation or they were the sort of
person etc etc but unless everybody is
part of the same grift which is to get
you to sit in silence for a long time
with your eyes closed the incentives
don't seem to really be there to to get
you to do that and the thing that's been
like enticing me about it is and I don't
know if you're the same way but like
when I see how bad I am at something on
My first few tries, I'm like, "Oh my
god, my newbie gains are going to be
through the through the roof." Because
I'm a meditation hyper resppond. Oh my
god. Well, me me trying to meditate is
like is I'm so bad at it. So bad at it
that I'm like I'm I I'm going to unlock
so much. I'm so bad. Yeah.
And so and I also like it because like
it's fits so well in my worldview of
like of course h having that level of
happiness takes work. Of course it's not
me changing my of because like I spent
my life changing my external conditions.
I I I literally live in a fortress of my
own making. We are we are in one of two
huge rooms that are my gym, right? And I
I I look the way I look because of that
effort. I married the person I wanted to
marry. I I have the business like I did
all of those things and yet this guy who
has a chair in the middle of Tibet is is
fist you and having he's just
murdering you. Yeah. Well, this is, you
know, we we spoke about this when we
chatted the other week and I do think
it's an important pivot and I think that
the story as well is an important pivot
uh more for you than for me, but for me
a little too
of you spend a long time trying to
achieve things that you think are going
to make you happy and fulfilled and they
bring with it
material objective real changes in life.
And some of them are really important to
frontload. And some of them can only be
achieved at certain periods of your
life.
And after a while, you ask yourself, is
this still the game that I need to keep
playing? Yeah, I'm 10 out of 10 in this
thing. And 11 doesn't exist, but tiny
increments of tens do.
If this isn't the
answer, does it make sense to continue
trying to fill an internal void with
external goals? Yeah. And I think it's
pretty cool to hear
you look at a different even just
consider uh a different mode of input
with regards to that.
And just for the record, I'm only doing
it because I think unlocking the next
level of achievement.
Here we go. I have to I have to still
have my logic brain for why it'd be
worth it. Um, but no, it's it's um the I
think the reason I'm so I'm I'm I'm
actually considering it
is it takes so much violent level of
work.
It's true though. The only way that
anybody could describe meditation as
viol the only way that you could
convince yourself to do it is to call
meditation violence. Um, but look, I I
something and this is me stealing you
and then repurposing it in a different
way. Uh, we sacrifice the thing we want
for the thing that's supposed to get it.
Like we sacrifice happiness in order to
become successful so that when we're
sufficiently successful, we can finally
be happy. And then if you were to make
some sort of psychological equation and
just strike off success from both sides,
you kind of get left with the happiness
piece. But we're not closed systems.
Humans need a sense of validation. They
want to be recognized by the world. We
have goals that we want to do. And it is
important to realize, it's an
unteachable lesson. It's important to
realize that the thing you thought was
going to fill the void wasn't the thing.
But you can't realize it wasn't the
thing that was going to fill the void
until you've got it. And then once you
have, you go, "Okay, sick. Take that one
off. Now allow me to move on to the more
subtle insight that I could have never
achieved had I have not gone there." And
so when I was um 1920ish, kind of when
you have a lot of these existential
crises, it's very common time between 18
to 22 when people develop their
worldview, at least solidify some
version of it. I strongly debated
leaving everything and you know pursuing
the meditation monk path because I saw I
saw the same research that I'm looking
at now 16 years later right and what was
interesting was that that was actually
during the process where I was like
happiness I'm not I'm not going to even
think about this anymore um and I made
my new life goal to just be useful
because the thing is is that and this
might be me doing the the lame judgment
on other people but me seeing a guy who
sits in a hut and then just sits there
and is happy for eight hours a day every
day. I see that. I saw that. I try to
have no judgment here, but as a waste
because I think there's also a duty that
we have to help other people. Now,
that's a should. I want to be clear. So,
you don't, you know, obviously you don't
have to subscribe to that, but I at
least have it deeply enough in me that I
feel like we should be useful to one
another. Um, and so I my desire to be
useful has been greater than my desire
to be happy. But if there is a world
that at this point I can be both, I'm
okay with it. Money doesn't buy
happiness past $70,000 per year because
spending money effectively is a skill
and most people never acquire it. As
someone who earns more than $70,000 a
year, what have you learned about the
skill of spending money effectively? So,
so it's so funny because people assume
that there are not levels to skills. Um,
and I remember seeing, you know, my
first billionaire start spending money.
And I was like, whoa, that's a thing.
Interesting. Um, and a lot of people who
even do make money or save a lot of
money never learn how to spend it. Well,
now I'm not saying blow it on stupid
things, but the the 3D learning that you
described with um die with with Bill, he
spent money to create that experience
and it was probably worth it. And so the
most people just limit themselves to
house, car, food, travel. That's that's
the majority of it. But there are so
many other things that you can do with
money that improve your daily experience
that create memories that will pay
memory dividends for a long period of
time. Um, and the biggest the easiest
ones to basically pay down are time. And
so it costs roughly $1,500 a month to
get about 90 hours a month back if you
add up uh
driving,
gas, preparation, cooking, cleaning of
food, cleaning of your
dwelling, cleaning and prep of your
clothing. If you put all of those things
together, what the average American
spends per week, it's about 20ish 25
hours a week that they spend doing all
of those things for themselves. And so
90ish hours per month. And the
cumulative cost of fixing all of that
stuff is about 1,500 bucks a month.
Well, that be a maid/housekeeper person
who maybe could also cook or maybe a
cook who's separate, a Uber daily. Yeah.
Uh at the low end, later you could have
a personal driver, but yeah, totally.
Just those two. Those are the only two.
Well, then you have uh food prep. We
could do uh one. Yeah. One-stop shop,
housekeeper, probably cost a little more
there, but Yeah. Yeah. But it would fold
two rolls into one. Yes. And so, but
thinking about that and we have our
$70,000 per year, you know, cap. But if
we're assuming, okay, we're making more
than that. If you make a million dollar
a year, it's like, okay, would you be
willing to spend 70 to get somebody who
does all of those things for you? And
you get a 100 hours a week. Well, as if
you get the 100 hours back, let's just
say it's let's say let's keep it at
$5,000 a month for what we're willing to
spend. So, more than that, okay? So, if
you can make more than $50 an hour with
your free time or you simply would pay
$50 to get more free time to lie in a
hammock that to lie in a hammock, then
it's worth the trade or go wakeboarding.
And so, I think the that most people
have who who start making more money,
they just stop at nice house, nice car,
maybe nice clothes, and places to eat,
occasional travel that they spend once
or twice a year. That's it. That's all
they do. But there's so many ways to
improve your existing environment. I get
the sense that it's actually the middle
level. It's the people who maybe earn a
100 grand a year in USD, maybe sort of
70 grand, they're the ones who are
likely to probably need this information
the most because if you're up to the
half a million, a million a year or
something like that, it's like you
you've probably realized that this is
something that you can spend money on.
People don't I talk to entrepreneurs all
the time. Well, that's that's it's one
of the first things I do when I look
into a company. I say, "What do you
like? Do you have do you have a
housekeeper? Do you have a like and we
go through all this stuff cuz the
highest ROI money I can spend as an
investor is getting a 100 hours a month
back for the entrepreneur for 50 grand.
My god." Well, I mean the Yes, that's
crazy. Uh and also if you are someone
who to whom an additional 50 grand a
year of income would be 30% of your net
worth or 30% of your annual income
making 150 grand a year for you this
opens up a lot more than it actually
does for the guy that's let's say that I
guess when you're making a million each
hour that you would then spend would be
worth more etc etc but yeah it's
uh that overcoming that sense of I can
do this for free
therefore I shouldn't pay someone to do
it. Guilt of spending, this sense of
opulence and
wastefulness, entitlement. Totally. Um,
overcoming that has been a real a real
challenge for me. And it's good that
I've been around people like Bill,
yourself. And, uh, it's almost like it's
a very specific type of ambition and
it's not ambition in the material sense,
it's ambition in the life quality sense.
Freedom. Yeah. Yeah.
So, one of the things I think from today
that's
been novel or interesting to me has
been updates in your worldview. So,
reflecting on the last 12 months or so,
what do you think are the things that
you've changed your mind on the most or
updated your beliefs on the most?
Instead of saying
happiness, I am open to the idea that I
can be both useful and
happy. I'd say that's probably the
biggest one, that it's not a trade
between the two. That's number one. I
would say the second is getting very
specific about moments and not
extrapolating moments to days, weeks,
months,
years. This one good thing. Can I spread
that wide and this one bad thing? Can I
shrink it into the absolute smallest
possible box? And making sure that I
don't suffer the second
arrow. I would say like if I had the two
probably those are probably the two
biggest things that I would
say I have been actively working on for
how I see
reality. Well, I look forward to seeing
what you've learned next time. I
appreciate you, man. Thank you for
having me. Thank you very much for I
mean let's be honest you've made it to
the end of an episode that's like four
hours long. I there's a rarified number
of people that have made it here. Uh so
there's a treat for you which is an
episode with an Indian less jacked
version of Alex Hormosi Naval Ravikham
waiting for you. Go on press it.